**==> picture [235 x 67] intentionally omitted <==**

2025 Financial Information Return

**Schedule 22 Municipal and School Board Taxation**

**Table of Contents**

SCHEDULE 22:  Municipal and School Board Taxation ............................................................... 4
General Information ...................................................................................................................... 4
Unique Property Types ................................................................................................................. 5
Hydro Properties (RTQ = H, J, K) .............................................................................................. 5
Taxable Tenants of the Province (RTQ = P, Q) ........................................................................ 5
Hydro-Electric Power Dams ...................................................................................................... 6
Railway Rights - of- Way (RTC = W) ......................................................................................... 6
Utility Corridors (RTC = U) ........................................................................................................ 7
Description of Columns ................................................................................................................. 8
Property Class Description (Columns 1 to 4) ............................................................................ 8
Column 1 - RTC / RTQ .......................................................................................................... 8
Column 2 - Tax Band ............................................................................................................. 9
Column 3 - Property Class ................................................................................................... 10
Column 4 - Tax Rate Description ......................................................................................... 10
Assessment and Tax Rates (Columns 5 to 11) ....................................................................... 11
Column 5 - Tax Ratio ........................................................................................................... 11
Column 6 - Percent of Full Rate .......................................................................................... 12
Column 7 - CVA Assessment .............................................................................................. 16
Column 16 - Phase-In Taxable Assessment ....................................................................... 16
Column 8 - Tax Rates:  Lower-Tier / Single-Tier ................................................................. 17
Column 9 - Tax Rates: Upper-Tier ....................................................................................... 18
Column 10 - Tax Rates:  Education ..................................................................................... 18
Column 11 – Tax Rates: Total ............................................................................................. 18
Taxes Levied (Columns 12 to 15) ........................................................................................... 19
Column 12 – Municipal Taxes:  Lower-Tier / Single-Tier ..................................................... 19
Column 13 – Municipal Taxes:  Upper-Tier ......................................................................... 19
Column 14 - Education Taxes ............................................................................................. 20
Column 15 - Total Taxes ..................................................................................................... 20
Description of Sections ............................................................................................................... 20
General Purpose Levy Information (22A) ................................................................................ 22
Special Area Levy Information ................................................................................................ 24
Lower-Tier / Single-Tier Special Area Levy Information (22B)............................................. 26
Upper-Tier Special Area Levy Information (22C) ................................................................. 27
Adjustments to Taxation (22D) ................................................................................................ 27
Line 7010 - Adjustment for Properties Shared as if Payment-In-Lieu .................................. 27 
Supplementary Taxes (22D) ................................................................................................... 28
Line 9799 - Total of All Supplementary Taxes ..................................................................... 28
Assessment Act ................................................................................................................... 28
Municipal Act ....................................................................................................................... 29
Section 359: ......................................................................................................................... 29
Amount Levied by Tax Rate (22D) .......................................................................................... 29
Line 9910 - Amount Levied by Tax Rate ............................................................................. 29
Amounts Added to Tax Bill (22D) ............................................................................................ 29
Line 8005 - Local improvements .......................................................................................... 30
Line 8010 - Sewer and water service charges ..................................................................... 30
Line 8015 - Sewer and water connection charges ............................................................... 31
Line 8020 - Fire service charges ......................................................................................... 31
Line 8025 - Minimum tax (differential only) .......................................................................... 31
Line 8030 - Municipal drainage charges .............................................................................. 31
Line 8035 - Waste management collection charges ............................................................ 31
Line 8040 - Business improvement area ............................................................................. 32
Line 8097 - Other ................................................................................................................. 32
Line 9890 - Subtotal - Amounts Added to Tax Bills ............................................................. 32
Other Taxation Amounts (22D) ............................................................................................... 32
Line 8045 - Railway Rights-of-way (RTC = W) .................................................................... 33
Line 8050 - Utility transmission and utility corridors (RTC = U) ........................................... 33
Line 8098 - Other ................................................................................................................. 34
Line 9892 - Subtotal - Other Taxation Amounts .................................................................. 34
Total Amount Levied (22D) ..................................................................................................... 34
Line 9990 - Total Levied ...................................................................................................... 34 

## **SCHEDULE 22:  Municipal and School Board Taxation**

## **General Information**

All municipalities, including single-tier, lower-tier and upper-tier municipalities must complete Schedule 22. 

Upper-tiers report only Upper-tier tax rates that apply to the aggregated assessment of all lower-tiers.  Lower-tier and Education tax rates do not need to be entered by Uppertier municipalities. 

This schedule collects taxation information on Taxable properties.  It is simply, a line-byline report showing the assessment for each property class in the municipality, the tax rates applicable to each class, and the taxation generated from each class. 

Municipal and Education taxation information in this schedule is organized by dividing the Schedule into the following nine sections: 

**1. General Purpose Levy** 

**2. Special Area Levies (Lower-tier/Single-tier)** 

**3. Special Area Levies (Upper tier)** 

**4. Adjustments to Taxation** 

**5. Supplementary Taxes** 

**6. Amount Levied by Tax Rate** 

**7. Amounts Added to Tax Bill** 

**8. Other Taxation Amounts** 

**9. Total Amount Levied** 

Also, the schedule contains several columns, which can be summarized into the following 3 categories: 

- **A. Property Class Description (Columns 1 to 4)** 

- **B. Assessment and Tax Rates (Columns 5 to 11) C. Taxes Levied (Columns 12 to 15)** 

Before explaining each of the sections and columns, the reporting treatment of several unique property types will be explained below.  Following this will be a description of each of the columns, and then a description of information reported in each section. 

## **Unique Property Types**

### **Hydro Properties (RTQ = H, J, K)**

Unique RTC / RTQ descriptions are available for Hydro properties owned by Ontario Power Generation Corporation and Hydro One or their subsidiaries.  Hydro properties are described as “Taxable, shared as if Payment-In-Lieu” represented by RTQ’s of H, J, or K.  The full property assessment and applicable tax rates for these properties should be reported in Sections 1, 2 and 3 of this Schedule. 

Since, the education portion of the payment from the Commercial or Industrial Hydro properties should be retained by the municipality, an adjustment is necessary to the amounts shown in Part 1.  Part 4, Adjustment to Taxation, has been added to account for this.  In Part 4, Line 7010 Municipalities should report the amount of education taxes that are retained by the Municipality as a negative adjustment to Education Taxes in column 14, and a positive adjustment to Municipal Taxes in column 12.  The total of Line 7010 shown in column 15 should then equal 0. 

Reporting the adjustments for Hydro Properties on Line 7010 will balance the Total Municipal Taxes and Total Education Taxes on Line 9990. 

### **Taxable Tenants of the Province (RTQ = P, Q)**

Unique RTC / RTQ descriptions are available for taxable tenants of provincially owned properties.  These properties described as “Taxable Tenant of Province” are represented by RTQ’s of P, Q. 

These properties are unique since they are described as Payments-In-Lieu of Taxation (PIL), while being treated as Taxable.  Unlike many other PIL properties, the Education amounts from these properties should be distributed to the School Boards and should not be retained by the Municipality. 

Although these properties are treated as taxable properties because they are described as “Payment-In-Lieu of Taxation”, they should be reported on Schedule 24, PaymentsIn-Lieu of Taxation. 

### **Hydro-Electric Power Dams**

As of 2001, Power Dams were exempted from property taxation.  Municipalities no longer receive amounts from these properties based on a Tax Rate multiplied by Assessment.  To compensate for the loss of this tax revenue, the province is making payments to municipalities based on the Municipal taxes these properties generated in 2000. 

These amounts are paid directly to each lower-tier and each upper-tier municipality affected by the exemption.  Since the amount is a payment from the province, it should be reported as a Payment-In-Lieu of Taxation on Schedule 24, on Line 8060 under Part 7, “Other Payment-In-Lieu Amounts”. 

### **Railway Rights - of- Way (RTC = W)**

Unique RTC / RTQ descriptions are available for Railway Rights-of-way properties. Railway Rights-of-way properties are represented by RTC of W. 

Municipalities receive amounts from Railway Rights-of-way properties based on applying a Rate to the Acreage of the property. 

A Railway Rights-of-way property can be classed as either Taxable or PIL.  If the amount is derived from a Railway Right-of-way property which is classed as “Taxable”, the amount should be reported in Schedule 22 on Line 8045.  If the amount is derived from a Railway Right-of-way property which is classed as “PIL”, then the amount should be reported in Schedule 24 on line 8045. 

In some instances, the municipality receives an additional amount in respect of Railway Rights-of-way properties from the province.  This is because Rates for Railway Rightsof-way are being phased-in to the mature geographical rates.  Municipalities receive an amount as compensation for the loss of tax revenue resulting from the phase-in. 

Unlike the compensation related to the Power Dams, these compensation amounts are paid directly to the lower-tier and single-tier municipality.  Lower-tier Municipalities have been advised to share the compensation amounts they receive with the Upper-tier according to the sharing arrangements for Railway Rights-of-way revenues. 

Since the compensation amount is a payment from the province, it should be reported as a Payment-In-Lieu of Taxation on Schedule 24, under Part 7, “Other Payment-InLieu Amounts”.  Line 8046 has been added specifically for reporting this amount. 

### **Utility Corridors (RTC = U)**

Unique RTC / RTQ descriptions are available for Utility Corridor properties. Utility Corridor properties are represented by RTC of U.  Municipalities receive amounts from Utility Corridor properties based on applying a Rate to the Acreage of the property. 

A Utility Corridor property can be classed as either Taxable or PIL. If the amount is derived from a Utility Corridor property which is classed as “Taxable”, the amount should be reported in Schedule 22 on Line 8050.  If the amount is derived from a Utility Corridor property which is classed as “PIL”, then the amount should be reported in Schedule 24 on line 8050. 

In some instances, the municipality receives an additional amount in respect of Utility Corridor properties from the province.  This is because Rates for Utility Corridors are being phased-in to the mature geographical rates.  Municipalities receive an amount as compensation for the loss of tax revenue resulting from the phase-in. 

Unlike the compensation related to the Power Dams, these compensation amounts are paid directly to the lower-tier and single-tier municipality.  Lower-tier Municipalities have been advised to share the compensation amounts they receive with the Upper-tier. 

Since the compensation amount is a payment from the province, it should be reported as a Payment-In-Lieu of Taxation on Schedule 24, under Part 7, “Other Payment-InLieu Amounts”. 

Line 8051 has been added specifically for reporting this amount. 

## **Description of Columns**

The following table displays a list of all the columns in this schedule: 

| **Column** | **Description**             |
| ---------- | --------------------------- |
| 1          | RTC / RTQ                   |
| 2          | Tax Band                    |
| 3          | Property Class              |
| 4          | Tax Rate Description        |
| 5          | Tax Ratio                   |
| 6          | Percent of Full Rate        |
| 7          | CVA Taxable Assessment      |
| 16         | Phase-in Taxable Assessment |
| 8          | Tax Rates: LT / ST          |
| 9          | Tax Rates: UT               |
| 10         | Tax Rates: EDUC             |
| 11         | Tax Rates: TOTAL            |
| 12         | Municipal Taxes: LT / ST    |
| 13         | Municipal Taxes: UT         |
| 14         | Education Taxes             |
| 15         | Total Taxes                 |



Columns 1,3,4,5,6,7,16,8,9,10, are pre-populated for the user in the taxable generalpurpose levy schedule. 

To complete the schedule, the user must select the tax band. Column 2, and the rest of the schedule will be automatically calculated. 

### **Property Class Description (Columns 1 to 4)**

The first 4 columns display information related to the property classes that exist in the municipality. The information contained in these columns determines the information that should appear in the remaining columns. 

#### **Column 1 - RTC / RTQ**

This refers to the 2-digit code of the property class, and tax rate applicable to the assessment on a property. The first digit represents the Realty Tax Class (RTC) and refers to the property class. The second digit represents the Realty Tax Qualifier (RTQ) and refers to the tax rate that is applied to the property. 

The RTQ describes which of the following ways the Tax Rate is applied: 

1. Full tax rate 

2. Discounted tax rate 

   - i. Excess Land 

   - ii. Vacant Land 

   - iii. Farmland Awaiting Development 

3. Education tax rate only 

4. General tax rate only 

For RTC / RTQ codes that refer to optional property classes, municipalities should report these whether the class is ‘in effect’ or not.  They should not be aggregated with the ‘broad’ Commercial or Industrial class.  This allows the optional property class properties to be identified regardless of whether the optional class is in effect. 

Please refer to the FIR2025 Tables document for a complete list of applicable RTC / RTQ combinations. New Construction classes have been formed under the Commercial and Industrial property class.  RTC codes and RTQ codes available at the FIR website: 

https://efis.fma.csc.gov.on.ca/fir/index.php/municipal-reporting/additional-information/ 

#### **Column 2 - Tax Band**

Municipalities have been provided with the option of applying graduated tax rates, often referred to as Tax Banding, in the commercial and industrial property classes. This means that municipalities can apply different tax rates to tax bands, or different ranges of assessment within a property class.  Please refer to Section 3 of Schedule 20 in these instructions, for further information on Tax Bands. 

Municipalities must enter 0, L, M, or H in this column as explained in the instructions below: 

For municipalities who have NOT adopted tax banding in a property class, a zero, ‘0', should be reported on each line in this column.  An entry of ‘0' represents an ‘Unbanded’ tax rate. 

For municipalities who have adopted tax banding, by either creating 2 or 3 Tax Bands of assessment value (CVA) to which different tax rates are applied, the following tables outline the entries available for this column: 

**==> picture [341 x 116] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
No Tax Bands<br>Tax Band  Enter<br>Un-banded  0<br>2 Tax Bands<br>Tax Band Enter<br>Low tax band  L<br>High tax band  H<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


##### **3 Tax Bands**

| **3 Tax Bands** |           |
| --------------- | --------- |
| **Tax Band**    | **Enter** |
| Low tax band    | L         |
| Medium tax band | M         |
| High tax band   | H         |



**Note:**

If an optional Commercial or Industrial property class is in effect in the municipality, Tax Banding only applies to the residual Commercial or Industrial assessment.  In other words, Tax banding does not apply to optional property classes that are in effect. 

Please refer to the FIR2025 document for a complete list of applicable RTC / RTQ combinations, RTC Codes, and RTQ codes available on the FIR website: 

https://efis.fma.csc.gov.on.ca/fir/index.php/municipal-reporting/additional-information/ 

#### **Column 3 - Property Class**

The name of the property class in this column corresponds to the Realty Tax Class (RTC) code, which is the first letter of the RTC / RTQ Code in column 1.  (See FIR2025 Tables) 

#### **Column 4 - Tax Rate Description**

This column describes the tax rate that is applied to a property class and corresponds to the Realty Tax Qualifier (RTQ) code, which is the second letter of the RTC / RTQ Code in column 1.  (See FIR2025 Tables) 

### **Assessment and Tax Rates (Columns 5 to 11)**

Current Value Assessment (CVA) totals and Tax Rate information, including Tax Ratios, Discount Percentages of the Full Tax Rate, and Tax Rates that are applicable to the property classes outlined in columns 1 to 4 must be reported in these columns. 

It is important to notice that EVERY tax rate is determined by the following relationship with the Residential (RT) tax rate: 

**Tax Rate = RT Tax Rate x Tax Ratio x Percent of Full Rate**

**Example:**

The Commercial vacant land tax rate (CX) is usually discounted to 70% of the Commercial full occupied tax rate (CT).  If the RT Tax Rate is 0.12% and the Commercial Tax Ratio is 2.5000, the CX rate is determined from the residential tax rate as follows (assuming a 70% Vacant Land discount): 

**CX Tax Rate = RT Rate x CT Tax Ratio x Percent of Full CT Rate**

**= 0.120000% x 2.5000 x 70%** 

#### **Column 5 - Tax Ratio**

The Tax Ratio defines the relationship between the Tax Rate of each property class in relation to the Residential property class (RT).  For example, if the Residential tax rate is 2% and the Commercial tax rate (CT) is 4% twice that of the Residential tax rate, then the Commercial tax ratio is 2.0000: 

**==> picture [294 x 46] intentionally omitted <==**

All Tax Ratios are now expressed as a decimal to 6 decimal places. The tax ratio for the Residential (RTC = R) property class is always 1.0000, and the tax ratio for the Farmland (RTC = F), and Managed Forest (RTC = T) property classes is always 0.2500. 

Each property class, and similarly, each RTC code, must have a tax ratio associated with it.  It is also worth noting that the Tax Ratio remains constant within a property class.  For example, a Commercial Tax Ratio of 2.0000 applies to CT, CU and CX (CU, and CX usually have a 70% discount as described in column 6). 

Please refer to the FIR2025 Tables document for a complete list of RTC Codes which shows the relationship between the RTC Code (or property class) and the tax ratio. 

Please note the exceptions that exist when optional classes are in effect. 

#### **Column 6 - Percent of Full Rate**

This column captures information relating to discounted tax rates, and tax banding of the tax rates. These can be summarized into the following 3 cases: 

| **Types of Tax Rate Discounts**             | **Options**                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Vacant Land or Excess Land                  | Excess Land Rate (RTQ = U)<br>Vacant Land Rate (RTQ=X)                                      |
| Farmland Awaiting Development               | Phase 1 (RTQ = 1)<br>Phase 2 (RTQ=4)                                                        |
| Tax Banding (Percent of Full Unbanded Rate) | Low Tax Band (Tax Band = L)<br>Middle Tax Band (Tax Band = M)<br>High Tax Band (Tax Band=H) |



Notice that the first 2 cases relate to the RTQ of a property, while the 3rd case refers to the Tax Band. 

For municipalities who have opted for tax banding of tax rates, it may be possible to have case 1 and 3 occurring at the same time (i.e. RTQ = U, X and Tax Band = L, M, H). 

Remember, every tax rate is determined by the following relationship with the Residential tax rate: 

**Tax Rate = RT Tax Rate x Tax Ratio x Percent of Full Rate**

This formula can be rearranged as follows to enable us to calculate the Percent of Full Rate: 

**Percent of Full Rate = Tax Rate ÷ RT Tax Rate x Tax Ratio**

Please refer to the FIR2025 Tables document for a complete list of RTQ Codes which shows the relationship between the RTQ Code and the Percent of Full Rate.  Please note the exceptions that exist when optional classes are in effect. 

**Example 1: The following table outlines a sample of property classes, with the tax ratio, percent of full rate, and tax rate columns.**

| **RTC /**<br>**RTQ**<br>**1** | **Tax**<br>**Band**<br>**2** | **Tax Ratio**<br>**5** | **Percent of**<br>**Full Rate**<br>**6** | **Tax Rate**<br>**8** |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | --------------------- |
| RT                            | 0                            | 1.0000                 | 100%                                     | 2.000000%             |
| FT                            | 0                            | 0.2500                 | 100%                                     | 0.500000%             |
| CT                            | 0                            | 2.0000                 | 100%                                     | 4.000000%             |
| CU                            | 0                            | 2.0000                 | 70%                                      | 2.800000%             |
| CX                            | 0                            | 2.0000                 | 70%                                      | 2.800000%             |
| IT                            | 0                            | 3.0000                 | 100%                                     | 6.000000%             |
| IU                            | 0                            | 3.0000                 | 65%                                      | 3.900000%             |
| I1                            | 0                            | 3.0000                 | 40%                                      | 2.400000%             |
| I4                            | 0                            | 3.000                  | 55%                                      | 3.300000%             |



In this table, notice that any tax rate can be determined using the formula mentioned earlier. 

Multiplying the Residential tax rate (RT Rate) of 2.0% by the Tax Ratio and then by the Percent of Full Rate on any line will provide the resulting Tax Rate for that RTC / RTQ code. 

This is shown below for CU: 

**CU Rate = RT Rate x CT Tax Ratio x Percent of Full CT Rate**

**= 2.0% x 2.0000 x 70%** 

**= 2.0% x 1.4000** 

**= 2.8%** 

Also, notice that working backwards with the second formula mentioned earlier, the Percent of Full Rate for any line can be determined as shown below for RTC / RTQ of I4: 

**Percent of Full Rate = I4 Rate ÷ (RT Tax Rate x IT Tax Ratio)**

**= 3.3% ÷ (2.0% x 3.0000)** 

**= 3.3% ÷ (6.0%)** 

**= 55%** 

For municipalities which have implemented Tax Banding in the commercial or industrial property classes, the ‘Percent of Full Rate’ column is slightly more complicated. 

In dealing with tax rates which are ‘Banded’, the percent of Full Rate is determined as a discount percent of the Full Un-Banded Rate.  This column would thus be more appropriately named, ‘Percent of Full Un-Banded Rate’ in this case. 

When Tax Banding exists, the Percent of Full Rate is a combination of the Tax Banding discount, and the Vacant or Excess Land discount. 

**Example 2:**

The following table outlines a simple case where 2 commercial tax bands (Low and High) are in effect in a municipality: 

| **RTC /**<br>**RTQ**<br>**1** | **Tax**<br>**Band**<br>**2** | **Tax**<br>**Ratio**<br>**5** | **Percent of**<br>**Full Rate**<br>**6** | **Tax Rate**<br>**8** |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | --------------------- |
| RT                            | 0                            | 1.0000                        | 100%                                     | 2.000000%             |
| FT                            | 0                            | 0.2500                        | 100%                                     | 0.500000%             |
| CT                            | 0                            | 2.0000                        | 100%                                     | 4.000000%             |
| CT                            | L                            | 2.0000                        | 90%                                      | 3.600000%             |
| CT                            | H                            | 2.0000                        | 120%                                     | 4.800000%             |
| CU                            | L                            | 2.0000                        | 63%                                      | 2.520000%             |
| CU                            | H                            | 2.0000                        | 84%                                      | 3.360000%             |
| CX                            | L                            | 2.0000                        | 63%                                      | 2.520000%             |
| CX                            | H                            | 2.0000                        | 84%                                      | 3.360000%             |



In this example, we have included the un-banded commercial rate for illustration purposes.  You will notice that CT, CU, and CX have each been divided into 2 parts, a Low band (L) and a High band (H). 

Notice that working backwards with the second formula mentioned earlier, the Percent of Full Rate column for RTC / RTQ and Tax Band of CU   L (Low Band) is as follows: 

**Percent of Full Rate = CU Low Rate ÷ (RT Rate x CT Tax Ratio)**

**= 2.52% ÷ (2.0% x 2.0000)** 

**= 2.52% ÷ (4.0%) = 63%** 

Further examination of this calculation shows that the Percent of Full Rate for CU L (Low Band) can be determined by simply dividing by the CT 0 (Un-banded) Rate: 

**Percent of Full Rate = CU Low Rate ÷ CT Un-Banded Rate**

A closer look at the tax rate for CU Low Band shows that the 63% Discount is made up of 2 parts.  First, it includes a Discounted to 70% of the full commercial tax rate because it is a Vacant Land rate (i.e.  RTQ = U), and second, it is further discounted by 90% because it is the Low Tax Band rate (Tax Band = L). 

**CU Low Rate = RT Rate x CT Tax Ratio x (Vacant disc. x Low band disc.) = RT Rate x CT Tax Ratio x (Percent of Full Rate) = 2.0% x 2.0000 x (70% x 90%) = 2.0% x 2.0000 x (63%) = 2.52%** 

The Percent of Full Rate column for CT is 90% for the Low band and 120% for the High band.  For CU and CX the Percent of Full Rate is 63% for the Low band, and 84% for the High band. 

The Percent of Full Rate for CU and CX are lower because they combine the Vacant Land or Excess Land discount of 70%, along with the Tax Banding discounts of 90% and 120%. 

The table below outlines how to calculate the Percent of Full Rate, when tax banding exists in the Municipality. 

| **RTQ** | **Tax**<br>**Band** | **Description**                                                      | **Percent of Full ‘Un-banded’ Rate**                                                                                                   |
| ------- | ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| T       | 0<br>L<br>M<br>H    | “Full” Un-banded<br>Low Tax Band<br>Medium Tax Band<br>High Tax Band | 100%<br>Low Band Tax Rate ÷ Full Un-Banded Rate<br>Middle Band Tax Rate÷ Full Un-Banded Rate<br>High Ban Tax Rate ÷Full Un-Banded Rate |



| **RTQ** | **Tax**<br>**Band** | **Description**                                                      | **Percent of Full ‘Un-banded’ Rate**                                                                                                                                   |
| ------- | ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| U       | 0<br>L<br>M<br>H    | “Full” Un-banded<br>Low Tax Band<br>Medium Tax Band<br>High Tax Band | *nU Rate ÷ (RT Rate x *nT Tax Ratio)<br>Low Band Tax Rate ÷ Full Un-Banded Rate<br>Middle Band Tax Rate÷ Full Un-Banded Rate<br>High Ban Tax Rate ÷Full Un-Banded Rate |
| P       | 0<br>L<br>M<br>H    | “Full” Un-banded<br>Low Tax Band<br>Medium Tax Band<br>High Tax Band | *nU Rate ÷ (RT Rate x *nT Tax Ratio)<br>Low Band Tax Rate ÷ Full Un-Banded Rate<br>Middle Band Tax Rate÷ Full Un-Banded Rate<br>High Ban Tax Rate ÷Full Un-Banded Rate |



*n is a variable representing the RTC Code 

#### **Column 7 - CVA Assessment**

The total current value assessment (CVA) associated with each property class is entered in this column. 

Column 7 is pre-populated for the user in this taxable general-purpose levy schedule.  If the CVA assessment is incorrect, please delete the pre-populated amount and enter the correct information. 

For those municipalities that have multiple general levy areas, you will enter the 2025 Base CVA at 2016 Roll Return. (CVA assessment is currently frozen at 2016 Roll Return) 

Each taxable RTC / RTQ Code and Tax Band combination that is applicable in a municipality should have a record shown in this schedule. 

Please note that Hydro properties represented by RTQ = H, J, or K are reported in this column as Taxable Assessment. 

##### **Upper-tier Municipalities**

For an upper-tier municipality, this column should contain the sum of the taxable assessment in all the lower-tier municipalities.  This total aggregated assessment for all lower-tier taxable properties will be used to calculate the amount of upper-tier taxation. 

#### **Column 16 - Phase-In Taxable Assessment**

The phase-in taxable assessment associated with each property class is entered in this column.  Each taxable RTC / RTQ Code and Tax Band combination that is applicable in a municipality should have a record shown in this schedule. 

Column 16 is pre-populated for the user in the taxable general-purpose levy schedule. The information has been pre-populated from OPTA. If the phase-in taxable assessment is incorrect, please delete the pre-populated amount and enter the correct information. 

The phase-in taxable assessment amounts reported in this column will be applied to the Tax Rates reported in columns 8 to 11 to arrive at the Taxation amounts in columns 12 to 15 in this schedule. 

Please note that Hydro properties represented by RTQ = H, J, or K are reported in this column as Taxable Assessment. 

##### **Upper-tier Municipalities**

For an upper-tier municipality, this column should contain the sum of the phase-in taxable assessment in all the lower-tier municipalities.  This total aggregated assessment for all lower-tier taxable properties will be used to calculate the amount of upper-tier taxation. 

#### **Column 8 - Tax Rates:  Lower-Tier / Single-Tier**

All Lower-tier (LT) and Single-tier (ST) municipalities should enter tax rates in this column. 

Column 8 is pre-populated for the user in this taxable general-purpose levy schedule 

All tax rates that have been applied in the municipality for Lower-tier or Single-tier purposes should appear in this column. 

The tax rates should be entered as a Percentage to 6 decimal places into the appropriate column based on the purpose of the tax rate. 

(Decimal) **0.00123456** = (Percentage) **0.123456 %**

**Note:** Some RTC / RTQ combinations represent Education Rates only, or General Municipal rates only. 

#### **Column 9 - Tax Rates: Upper-Tier**

All Upper-tier (UT) and Lower-tier (LT) municipalities should enter tax rates in this column. 

Column 9 is pre-populated for the user in this taxable general-purpose levy schedule 

All Tax rates that have been applied in the municipality for Upper-tier purposes should appear in this column. 

The tax rates should be entered as a Percentage to 6 decimal places into the appropriate column based on the purpose of the tax rate. 

(Decimal) **0.00123456** = (Percentage) **0.123456 %** 

**Note:** Some RTC / RTQ combinations represent Education Rates only, or General Municipal rates only. 

#### **Column 10 - Tax Rates:  Education**

All Lower-tier (LT) and Single-tier (ST) municipalities should enter tax rates in this column.  Upper-Tier (UT) municipalities should NOT enter tax rates in this column. 

Column 10 is pre-populated for the user in this taxable general-purpose levy schedule 

All Tax rates that have been applied in the municipality for Education purposes should appear in this column. 

The tax rates should be entered as a Percentage to 6 decimal places into the appropriate column based on the purpose of the tax rate. 

(Decimal) **0.00123456** = (Percentage) **0.123456 %** 

**Note:** Some RTC / RTQ combinations represent Education Rates only, or General Municipal rates only. 

#### **Column 11 – Tax Rates: Total**

This column displays the total municipal and education tax rates. 

The total tax rate in each line is automatically calculated from the sum of columns 8, 9, and 10. 

### **Taxes Levied (Columns 12 to 15)**

The remaining columns display the taxes levied for Municipal, and Education purposes on each line of the schedule. 

In sections 1 to 3 of this schedule, the taxes levied columns 12 to 15 are automatically calculated from the assessment and tax rate information entered in previous columns. 

The taxes levied are calculated based on the following formula: 

**Taxes Levied = Assessment x Tax Rate**

In sections 4 to 8, these amounts must be entered manually since they are not calculated by applying a tax rate to an assessment.  Total amounts are automatically calculated. 

#### **Column 12 – Municipal Taxes:  Lower-Tier / Single-Tier**

All Lower-tier (LT) and Single-tier (ST) municipalities should have values in this column. 

This column is automatically calculated by multiplying the Assessment in column 7 by the LT / ST Tax Rate in column 8. 

In sections 4 to 8, the amounts must be entered, with the exception of totals which are automatically added. 

#### **Column 13 – Municipal Taxes:  Upper-Tier**

All Upper-tier (UT) and Lower-tier (LT) municipalities should have values in this column. 

This column is automatically calculated by multiplying the Assessment in column 7 by the UT Tax Rate in column 9. 

In sections 4 to 8, the amounts must be entered, with the exception of totals which are automatically added. 

#### **Column 14 - Education Taxes**

All Lower-tier (LT) or Single-tier (ST) municipalities should have values in this column. 

This column is automatically calculated by multiplying the Assessment in column 7 by the Education Tax Rate in column 10. 

In sections 4 to 8, the amounts must be entered, with the exception of totals which are automatically added. 

#### **Column 15 - Total Taxes**

This column displays the total municipal and education taxes. 

This column is automatically calculated by adding the Taxes in columns 12 to 14. 

## **Description of Sections**

Now that we have discussed the information contained in each of the Columns across the schedule, we shall proceed with discussing the following Sections that appear as you work down through the schedule: 

**1. General Purpose Levy** 

**2. Special Area Levies (Lower-tier / Single-tier)** 

**3. Special Area Levies (Upper-tier)** 

**4. Adjustments to Taxation** 

**5. Supplementary Taxes** 

**6. Amount Levied by Tax Rate** 

**7. Amounts Added to Tax Bill** 

**8. Other Taxation Amounts** 

**9. Total Amount Lev** ied 

This schedule is separated into sections to allow for simpler presentation of complicated tax scenarios that may exist in a municipality.  It is important for municipalities to recognize which tax rates and levies should be reported in each section. 

Municipalities should report all General-purpose tax rates in section 1.  If a Lower-tier or Single-tier municipality strikes a Special Area tax rate, this should be reported in part 2. If an Upper-tier municipality strikes a Special Area tax rate, this should be reported in part 3. 

Municipalities should not add a Special Area tax rate to a General-purpose tax rate and report the sum as a General-purpose tax rate in section 1. 

If a municipality does not enter tax rates in the appropriate sections, numerous miscalculations will occur in several parts of the FIR.  Municipalities should ensure tax rates are reported accurately to prevent this compounding of errors from occurring. 

In any section, if a municipality has more than one set of tax rates, then each set of tax rates should be reported separately within the section.  It is important to realize that the RTC / RTQ and Tax Band combination representing the property class can be shown only once within any set of tax rates.  That is, the property class, or RTC / RTQ and Tax Band combination is unique within each set of tax rates. 

In some instances, a Municipality may have more than one set of General-Purpose tax rates.  This scenario is referred to as ‘Levy Areas’ and requires a custom FIR to be setup.  A custom FIR is created which contains additional tables in section 1, for each set of General-purpose tax rates, or each ‘Levy Area’.  This allows the Municipality to report all General-Purpose Tax Rates in Section 1.  Municipalities can contact the Ministry by email at FIR.mah@ontario.ca to arrange for this to be set-up. 

Please refer to the Levy Areas document for a description of Levy Areas. 

Throughout the FIR, data points are referenced using the Schedule-Line-Column (SLC) numbering system.  For example, SLC 60 0410 02 refers to the data in Schedule 60, Line 0410, and Column 2. 

In this Schedule, every RTC / RTQ combination has a unique Line number associated with it.  For example, the Line number for RT is always 0010, and will repeat for every entry of RT throughout the Schedule.  Referencing a data point in section 1 of this schedule, therefore, involves a ‘Levy Area’ code in conjunction with the SLC Number. Similarly, in sections 2 and 3, a ‘Levy Type’ code in conjunction with the SLC Number references a data point.  For sections 4 to 8, the SLC Number alone identifies a data point. 

Please refer to the FIR2025 Tables document for a complete list of applicable Levy Types and Codes. 

### **General Purpose Levy Information (22A)**

This section contains all General-Purpose tax rates by property class for municipal and education purposes.  For each property class in the municipality, the total taxable assessment is also shown here, and is used to calculate the taxes levied for that property class. 

**The following columns in this taxable general-purpose levy schedule are prepopulated:**

- **RTC/RTQ codes (column 1)** 

- **Property Class (column 3)** 

- **Tax Rate Description (column 4)** 

- **Tax Ratio (column 5)** 

- **Percent of Full Rate % (column 6)** 

- **CVA Assessment (column 7)** 

- **Phase-In Taxable Assessment (column 16)** 

- **LT/ST Tax rate (column 08)** 

- **UT Tax rate (column 09)** 

- **Education Tax rate (column 10)** 

**To complete the schedule, the user must select the tax band (column 2), and the rest of the schedule will be automatically calculated.** 

It is important that **ALL** general-purpose tax rates and levies are reported in this section. General-purpose tax rates should not be shown in the special area tax rate sections. 

In cases where municipalities have a “Special Budgetary Levy” that is applied to all classes except those over the threshold, a special area rate should be entered on 22B or C.  The levy type of “Special Budgetary Levy” has been made available on the list of levy types. 

Most municipalities will have one set of uniform general-purpose tax rates that apply to every property in the municipality.  In this situation, the set of tax rates are reported in the table in this section. 

In some instances, municipalities may have more than one set of general-purpose tax rates.  In this scenario, a number of tables must be added to this section, and the concept of ‘Levy Area’ is introduced to accomplish this.  The municipality is split into 

separate parts called ‘Levy Areas’, where the sum of the parts makes up the entire municipality.  Each levy area has a corresponding table set-up in this section, and the municipality can then report separate sets of tax rates within each levy area. 

Municipalities with one set of uniform general-purpose tax rates that apply to every property in the municipality will report tax rates in the levy area of ‘0’.  Municipalities with more than one set of general-purpose tax rates will be assigned a unique code for each levy area. 

If a municipality has more than one set of general-purpose tax rates, a custom FIR must be set-up that includes ‘Levy Areas’ for each set of general-purpose tax rates. Municipalities can contact the Ministry by email at FIR@ontario.ca to arrange for this to be set-up. 

The need for multiple sets of general-purpose tax rates usually occurs in municipalities which have recently amalgamated.  In this situation, each of the former municipalities that make up the newly amalgamated municipality may have different general-purpose tax rates.  This accommodates the different service levels and needs that exist initially in an amalgamated municipality.  Eventually, the former municipalities will phase-in to a uniform general-purpose tax rate. 

Each property class, or RTC / RTQ and tax band combination can only be reported once within a levy area.  This means that each RTC / RTQ and tax band combination is unique within each set of general-purpose tax rates. 

If a municipality has more than one general-purpose tax rate for an RTC / RTQ and tax band combination, then multiple general-purpose levies exist within the municipality, and separate sets of tax rates must be entered into separate levy areas. 

Please recall that data points in this part of the FIR are referenced by levy area + SLC code.  It is also important to notice that each RTC / RTQ and tax band combination is associated with a unique line number. 

Subtotals are numbered sequentially based on the number of levy areas.  For example, if one levy area exists, the subtotal line is 9201.  If two levy areas exist, subtotal lines are 9201, and 9202. 

### **Special Area Levy Information**

Special area levy information is entered on two schedules: 

**Schedule 22B – Lower-tier / Single-tier Special Area Levy Information Schedule 22C – Upper-tier Special Area Levy Information**

In general, a special area levy only applies to a unique area within the municipality (which is not usually the entire municipality).  Also, a special area levy is usually a specific type, for example, “Fire” or “Transit”, which is separate from the generalpurpose levy. 

A list of levy types is available to allow municipalities to identify each special area rate. Please refer to the “ **FIR2025 Tables** ” file for a complete list of levy types available to select. 

Special area tax rates that are separately identified in a municipality’s tax rate by-law should be reported here, and should **NOT** be shown in section 1, for general-purpose levy information. *** Important! Miscalculations will occur in several parts of the FIR if tax rates are not reported in the correct section** . 

**To enter a special area levy:**

**Note: The process for entering a special area levy is the same for both lower-tier / single-tier special levy areas (22B) and upper-tier special levy areas (22C).**

The following information should be provided for each “Special Area Levy”: 

**1. Levy Type**

**2. RTC / RTQ and Tax Band combinations**

To enter a special area levy, first identify the type of levy that exists in the municipality. In the top section of the worksheet, municipalities can add a special area levy by clicking the “ADD A SPECIAL AREA LEVY” button. 

**==> picture [304 x 79] intentionally omitted <==**

Select the appropriate levy type from the drop-down list in the SPECIAL AREA LEVIES box.  Please refer to the “ **FIR2025 Tables** ” document for a complete list of levy types that are available. 

Once a levy type has been chosen, municipalities can also add their own custom description of the special area levy in the blank area provided. This is especially useful if you have more than one levy area for the same levy type. Click OK to save the levy area. 

**==> picture [222 x 207] intentionally omitted <==**

The levy type is then shown at the top and on one of the tables in the bottom part. 

**==> picture [389 x 96] intentionally omitted <==**

To enter another special area levy, simply repeat this step.  Also notice that if a Municipality has more than one set of tax rates applicable to a single specific levy type such as “Transit”, then multiple sets of tax rates can be entered for this levy type.  A 

“Levy Sequence’ is assigned to each set of tax rates.  For example, “Transit 01”, and “Transit 02” are two sets of “Transit” tax rates.  The following table outlines a sample of a series of levy types that could appear: 

| **Levy Code** | **Levy Type** | **Description**              |
| ------------- | ------------- | ---------------------------- |
| 320 01        | Transit       | Hamilton Street Railway-East |
| 320 02        | Transit       | Hamilton Street Railway–West |
| 450 01        | Recycling     | Recycling–North Ward Only    |



Notice that the Levy Type can be repeated, in which case the levy sequence identifies each of the records as 01 and 02. 

Next, municipalities should enter tax rates and assessment amounts in the bottom part of the worksheet. Where multiple levy areas have been added, the description of the levy area including any additional description information entered will be displayed on the first line of each table. 

i.e., 

**==> picture [344 x 85] intentionally omitted <==**

Like the general-purpose levy section, municipalities can report all taxable RTC / RTQ and tax band combinations.  Notice that each property class can be reported only once within a levy type. 

#### **Lower-Tier / Single-Tier Special Area Levy Information (22B)**

For lower-tier and single tier municipalities, completion of Schedule 22B is required where any special area tax rates for lower-tier / single-tier purpose have been applied within the municipality. 

Upper-tier municipalities should not enter any information into this schedule. 

#### **Upper-Tier Special Area Levy Information (22C)**

Only lower-tier and upper-tier municipalities should enter information in Schedule 22C. 

For lower-tier and upper-tier municipalities, completion of this section is required where any special area tax rates for upper-tier purpose have been applied within the municipality. 

### **Adjustments to Taxation (22D)**

This section allows municipalities to enter adjustments for properties that are “Taxable yet shared as if Payment-In-Lieu”.  Hydro Properties represented by RTQ = H, J, K are included in this description. 

#### **Line 7010 - Adjustment for Properties Shared as if Payment-In-Lieu**

Hydro Properties are described as “Taxable, shared as if Payment-In-Lieu” represented by RTQs of H, J, and K. 

This line is available to reconcile the Education portion of the amount from Commercial or Industrial Hydro properties, which is retained by the municipality. 

No other adjustments should be included on this line, and thus should NOT include cancellation, reduction, refund, or rebate adjustments of taxation levied in the year. These ‘negative’ adjustments should be reported on Schedule 72, Continuity of Taxes Receivable.  The overall impact of these ‘negative’ adjustments will be carried forward to Schedule 10, Revenue Fund Receipts. 

Previous Ontario Hydro properties are unique since the assessment is Taxable, while the taxes are shared in the same manner as a Payment-In-Lieu property.  For Commercial and Industrial classes, the Lower-tier (or Single-tier) retains the School Board share of the tax. 

First, Municipalities should report all properties with RTQ of H, J, and K in sections 1 to 3 of Schedule 22 with all corresponding Municipal and Education Tax Rates. Remember, in sections 1 to 3, each property class is reported with the respective RTC / RTQ and Tax Band combination.  The taxable assessment and applicable tax rates are reported, which automatically calculate a Municipal, Education, and Total Tax amount for the property class. 

Next, when the Education tax amount is retained by the Lower-tier (Single-tier) Municipality, the Education amount that is automatically shown in column 14 of sections 1 to 3 is overstated.  Municipalities should use line 7010, to adjust for the difference. 

In effect, Taxes need to be shifted from the Education Taxes shown in column 14, to the LT / ST Taxes shown in column 12.  To accomplish this, Municipalities should use line 7010 to report the negative adjustment to Education Taxes in column 14, and the positive adjustment to the LT / ST Taxes in column 12.  This will result in the Total of line 7010 in column 15 equalling 0. 

The adjustment results in the Education share of the Taxes on these properties being subtracted from the Total Education Taxes and added to the Total Lower-tier (Singletier) Taxes. 

### **Supplementary Taxes (22D)**

This section allows municipalities to enter supplementary taxes for Lower-tier (or Singletier), Upper-tier, and Education purposes. 

#### **Line 9799 - Total of All Supplementary Taxes**

This line is for reporting all additional taxes raised, because of re-billing, subsequent to the Final tax bills being issued on properties. 

This line should NOT include cancellation, reduction, refund, or rebate adjustments of taxation levied in the year.  These ‘negative’ adjustments should be reported on Schedule 72, Continuity of Taxes Receivable.  The overall impact of these ‘negative’ adjustments will be carried forward to Schedule 10. 

Items that should be included in this line are amounts in respect of the Assessment Act, and Municipal Act: 

#### **Assessment Act**

##### **Section 33 (OMIT):**

Assessment omitted from collector’s roll for the current year, or for any part or all of either or both of the next two preceding years. 

##### **Section 34 (SUPP):**

After notices of assessment have been given, and before the last day of the taxation year, further assessment necessary to reflect a change to a property. 

#### **Municipal Act**

#### **Section 359:**

Upon application made by the treasurer of the local municipality, a local municipality may increase the taxes levied on land in the year in which the application is made to the extent of any undercharge caused by a gross or manifest error that is a clerical or factual error, including the transposition of figures, a typographical error or similar error, but not an error in judgement in assessing the land. 

### **Amount Levied by Tax Rate (22D)**

This subtotal equals the Total amount of taxation levied by the application of a tax rate to an assessment value. 

#### **Line 9910 - Amount Levied by Tax Rate**

This line automatically calculates the sum of the General-Purpose Levy total, all Special Area Levy totals, Adjustments to Taxation, and Supplementary Taxes reported in the previous sections of this schedule. 

In other words, this line equals the sum of the totals of Sections 1 to 5. 

The following table outlines the calculation of the amount in this line: 

**Amount Levied by Tax Rate = Total General-Purpose Levy** 

**+ Total LT/ST Special Area Levies** 

**+ Total UT Special Area Levies** 

**+ Adjustments to Taxation** 

**+ Total Supplementary Taxes** 

### **Amounts Added to Tax Bill (22D)**

This section contains all amounts added to tax bills which are NOT levied by applying a tax rate to an assessment value. 

Examples of amounts charged by means other than applying a tax rate to an assessment are Rates per Acre, Rates per Amount of Frontage, Flat rates, etc. 

All amounts reported in this section must include any related supplementary taxes raised. 

The following list of items should **not be included** in this section: 

| **Do Not Include in this Section**                                                 | **Where to Report**                                                               |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Payment-In-Lieu (PIL) amounts                                                      | Schedules 24 and 26<br>_(Amounts are then carried forward onto_<br>_Schedule 10)_ |
| Tile drainage and shoreline assistance<br>collections                              | SLC  12 1850 04                                                                   |
| Direct water billings and sewer<br>surcharges                                      | SLC  12 0810 04 to SLC  12 0830 04                                                |
| Charges for collection of Education taxes<br>in Unorganized territories            | SLC  12 0299 04                                                                   |
| All other User Fees and Service Charges<br>which are NOT levied on tax bills       | SLC  12 xxxx 04                                                                   |
| Utility rate arrears and Federation of<br>Agriculture collection fees on tax bills | SLC  70 0699 01 as Taxes Receivable                                               |



The following lines are provided in this section for reporting typical additions to tax bills: 

#### **Line 8005 - Local improvements**

**Include amounts for local improvements which appear on the tax bill as a separate charge and are not reported as operating revenue from user fees in Schedule 12, Current revenue for specific functions.** 

#### **Line 8010 - Sewer and water service charges**

Include amounts for sewer or water services which appear on the tax bill as a separate charge and are not reported as operating revenue from user fees and service charges on Schedule 12. 

Direct water billings and Sewer surcharges should not be reported on this line. 

#### **Line 8015 - Sewer and water connection charges**

Include amounts for sewer and water connection charges which appear on the tax bill as a separate charge and are not reported as operating revenue from user fees and service charges on Schedule 12. 

Direct water billings and Sewer surcharges should not be reported on this line. Include connections on public property up to the municipality’s lot line. 

#### **Line 8020 - Fire service charges**

Include amounts for fire service charges which appear on the tax bill as a separate charge and are not reported as operating revenue from user fees and service charges on Schedule 12. 

#### **Line 8025 - Minimum tax (differential only)**

If the sum of taxes for Municipal, Education, and other purposes that is charged to a property owner is ‘less than’ the ‘Minimum Tax’ amount as provided for under section 388 of the Municipal Act, the difference between these amounts must be reported in this line. 

**Differential = Minimum Tax Amount - Sum of Taxes**

#### **Line 8030 - Municipal drainage charges**

Include billings for municipal drainage charges which appear on the tax bill as a separate charge and are not reported as user fees and service charges on Schedule 12. 

#### **Line 8035 - Waste management collection charges**

Include all charges relating to the collection and disposal of garbage and recyclable materials which appear on the tax bill as a separate charge and are not reported as operating revenue from user fees and service charges on Schedule 12. 

#### **Line 8040 - Business improvement area**

Include all charges related to any Business Improvement Areas which appear on the tax bill as a separate charge. These amounts are typically charged by applying a rate to the Amount of Frontage of a property. 

#### **Line 8097 - Other**

In addition to the lines mentioned above, line 8097 has been provided to allow municipalities to specify other items that have been added as a separate charge to the tax bill.  Municipalities can enter amounts which appear on the tax bill for purposes other than those mentioned above. 

A short description of the charge should also be included on this line by typing in the space provided. 

An example of an amount that should be entered here are amounts generated when a local improvement is prepaid after a debenture is issued by a municipality. A portion of the prepayment is applied to the annual debt charges. 

#### **Line 9890 - Subtotal - Amounts Added to Tax Bills**

This amount is equal to the sum of lines 8005 through 8040 and 8097. 

### **Other Taxation Amounts (22D)**

This section contains all other taxation amounts which are NOT levied by applying a tax rate to an assessment value.  These amounts are not added to the tax bill as in section 7. 

Examples of amounts charged by means other than applying a tax rate to an assessment are Rates per Acre, Rates per Amount of Frontage, Flat rates, etc. 

All amounts reported in this section must include any related supplementary taxes raised.  The following list of items should not be included in this section: 

| **Do Not Include in this Section** | **Where to Report**                                                               |
| ---------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Payment-In-Lieu (PIL) amounts      | Schedules 24 and 26<br>_(Amounts are then carried forward onto_<br>_Schedule 10)_ |



| **Do Not Include in this Section**                                                 | **Where to Report**                 |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| Tile drainage and shoreline assistance<br>collections                              | SLC  12 1850 04                     |
| Direct water billings and sewer<br>surcharges                                      | SLC  12 0810 04 to SLC  12 0830 04  |
| Charges for collection of Education taxes<br>in Unorganized territories            | SLC  12 0299 04                     |
| All other User Fees and Service Charges<br>which are NOT levied on tax bills       | SLC  12 xxxx 04                     |
| Utility rate arrears and Federation of<br>Agriculture collection fees on tax bills | SLC  70 0699 01 as Taxes Receivable |



The following lines are provided in this section for reporting typical additions to tax bills: 

#### **Line 8045 - Railway Rights-of-way (RTC = W)**

Include amounts related to Taxable properties within the Railway Right-of-Way property class (RTC = W).  These amounts are charged by applying a rate to the Acreage of such properties. 

Note:  Amounts that are in respect of portions of the property which are regarded as Payment-In-Lieu (PIL) or exempt from taxation should be reported on Schedule 24, line 8045.  Also, compensation amounts received from the province in respect of phasing-in Railway Rights-of-way rates should be reported in Schedule 24, line 8046. 

Please refer to the details at the beginning of the Instructions for this Schedule. 

#### **Line 8050 - Utility transmission and utility corridors (RTC = U)**

Include amounts related to Taxable properties within the Utility Transmission and Distribution Corridor property class (RTC = U).  These amounts are charged by applying a rate to the Acreage of such properties. 

**Note:** Amounts that are in respect of portions of the property which are regarded as Payment-In-Lieu (PIL) or exempt from taxation should be reported on Schedule 24, line 8045.  Also, compensation amounts received from the province in respect of phasing-in Utility Corridor rates should be reported in Schedule 24, line 8046. 

Please refer to the details at the beginning of the Instructions for this Schedule. 

#### **Line 8098 - Other**

In addition to the lines mentioned above, line 8098 has been provided to allow municipalities to specify other taxation amounts which have not been shown above. Municipalities can enter other taxation amounts which have not been added to the tax bill. 

A short description of the amount should also be included on this line by typing in the space provided. 

#### **Line 9892 - Subtotal - Other Taxation Amounts**

This amount is equal to the sum of lines 8045 through 8050 and 8098. 

### **Total Amount Levied (22D)**

This section is simply a total of all taxable amounts levied in the municipality. 

#### **Line 9990 - Total Levied**

This amount is equal to the sum of the totals in section 6, Amounts Levied by Tax Rate, section 7, Amounts Added to Tax Bill, and section 8 Other Taxation Amounts. 

**Total Amount Levied = Amount Levied by Tax Rate (Line 9910)** 

- **+ Amounts Added to Tax Bill (Line 9890)** 

**+ Other Taxation Amounts (Line 9892)** 

