**==> picture [235 x 67] intentionally omitted <==**

2025 Financial Information Return

**Schedule 72 Continuity of Taxes Receivable**

**Table of Contents**

SCHEDULE 72:  Continuity of Taxes Receivable ........................................................... 5
General Information ......................................................................................................... 5
Continuity of Taxes Receivable (Schedule 72A) ............................................................. 5
Continuity of Taxes Receivable .................................................................................... 5
Line 0210 - Taxes Receivable, Beginning of Year. ................................................... 5
Line 0215 - PLUS:  Amounts Added to Tax Bills for Collection Purposes Only. ....... 5
Line 0220 - PLUS:  Tax Amounts Levied in the Year. ............................................... 6
Line 0225 - PLUS:  Current Year Penalties and Interest .......................................... 6
Line 0240 - LESS:  Total Cash Collections ............................................................... 6
Line 0250 - LESS:  Tax Adjustments Before Allowances ......................................... 6
Line 0260 - LESS:  Tax Adjustments Not Applied to Taxation. ................................. 6
Line 0280 - PLUS:  Other ......................................................................................... 6
Line 0290 - Taxes Receivable, End of Year ............................................................. 7
Cash Collections (Schedule 72A) ................................................................................ 7
Line 0610 - Current Year's Tax ................................................................................. 7
Line 0620 - Previous Year's Tax ............................................................................... 7
Line 0630 - Penalties and Interest ............................................................................ 7
Line 0640 - Amounts Added to Tax Bills for Collection Purposes Only. .................... 8
Line 0690 - Other ...................................................................................................... 8
Line 0699 - Total Cash Collections ........................................................................... 8
Tax Adjustments Applied to Taxation (Schedule 72B) .................................................... 8
Description of Columns ................................................................................................ 8
Column 1 - School Boards:  English Public .............................................................. 8
Column 2 - School Boards:  French Public ............................................................... 8
Column 3 - School Boards:  English Separate .......................................................... 9
Column 4 - School Boards:  French Separate .......................................................... 9
Column 5 - School Boards: Other ............................................................................. 9
Column 6 - Total Education ...................................................................................... 9
Column 7 - Lower Tier (Single Tier) .......................................................................... 9
Column 8 - Upper Tier .............................................................................................. 9
Column 9 - Total Tax Adjustments ............................................................................ 9
Description of Lines ................................................................................................... 10 
Line 1000 - Taxes Collected on Behalf of “Other” Bodies (Municipal Act Section 353) ........................................................................................................................ 10
Line 1010 - Write-off of Taxes (Municipal Act Section 354) .................................... 10
Line 1020 - Cancellation, Reduction, Refund of Taxes, Overcharges (Municipal Act Section 357/358) ..................................................................................................... 10
Line 1030 - Cancellation, Reduction, or Refund of Taxes (Municipal Act Section 365) ........................................................................................................................ 11
Line 1040 - ARB Decisions, Advisory Notice of Adjustment Due to an ARB Decision ................................................................................................................................ 11 (Assessment Act 40) ............................................................................................... 11
Assessment Review Board (ARB) Decisions: ............................................................ 11
Line 1050 - RFR (Assessment Act 39.1) ................................................................ 11
Requests for Reconsiderations .................................................................................. 11
Line 1060 - Increase of Taxes, Error in Calculating Taxes (Municipal Act 359 & Municipal Act 359.1) ............................................................................................... 11
Line 1070 - Post Roll Amended Notices (PRANs) (Assessment Act Section 32) ... 12
Line 1080 - Special Amended Property Assessment Notices (SANs) (Assessment Act) ......................................................................................................................... 12
Line 1090 - Tax Incentive Adjustments (TIAs) (Assessment Act) ........................... 12
Line 1099 - Subtotal ................................................................................................ 12
Line 1299 - Discounts for Advanced Payments (Municipal Act, Section 345 (10)) . 12
Line 1499 - Tax Credit (Municipal Act, Section 474.3) ............................................ 13
Line 1699 - Tax Cancellation Low-Income Seniors and Disabled Persons (Municipal Act, Section 319) .................................................................................................... 13
Line 1810 - Rebates to Commercial Properties (Municipal Act, Section 362) ......... 13
Line 1820 - Rebates to Industrial Properties (Municipal Act, Section 362) ............. 14
Line 1899 - Subtotal ................................................................................................ 14
Line 2099 - Rebates for Charities (Municipal Act, Section 361) .............................. 14
Line 2299 - Vacant Unit Rebates (Municipal Act, Section 364) .............................. 14
Line 2301 - Contaminated Property (Municipal Act, Section 365.1) ....................... 14
Line 2399 - Reduction for Heritage Property (Municipal Act, Section 365.2) .......... 15
Line 2400 - Change in Assessment (Municipal Act, 365.3) .................................... 15
Lines 2890-2891 - Other ......................................................................................... 15
Line 2899 - Total Tax Adjustments Before Allowances ........................................... 15
Tax Adjustments Not Applied to Taxation (Schedule 72B) ............................................ 16
Description of Lines ................................................................................................... 16 
Line 4010 - Tax Sale, Tax Registration Accounts ................................................... 16
Line 4210 - Tax Deferral   Low-Income Seniors and Persons with Disabilities (Municipal Act, Section 319) ................................................................................... 16
Line 4420 - Net Impact of 5% Capping Limit Program ............................................ 16
Lines 4890 – 4891 - Other ...................................................................................... 19
Line 4999 - Total Tax Adjustments Not Applied to Taxation ................................... 19
Additional Information .................................................................................................... 19
Line 6010 - Recovery of Tax Deferrals ................................................................... 19
Line 7010 - Entitlement of School Boards ............................................................... 19 

## **SCHEDULE 72:  Continuity of Taxes Receivable**

## **General Information**

This series of schedules is **only completed by Single Tier or Lower Tier municipalities** .  In a two-tier system, even though the Upper Tier municipality sets an upper tier tax rate, the Upper Tier municipality does not complete this schedule because taxes are collected by lower tier municipalities. 

This schedule provides information on adjustments to the statement of financial position item, taxes receivable, in SLC 70 0699 01. 

This schedule consists of the following sections: 

- **72A   Continuity of Taxes Receivable** 

- **72A   Cash Collections** 

- **72B – Tax Adjustments Applied to Taxation** 

- **72B   Tax Adjustments Not Applied to Taxation** 

**72B   Additional Information** 

## **Continuity of Taxes Receivable (Schedule 72A)**

### **Continuity of Taxes Receivable**

#### **Line 0210 - Taxes Receivable, Beginning of Year.**

This amount is the subtotal for taxes receivable from the statement of Consolidated Financial Position from the previous year. 

Taxes receivable for the beginning of the reporting year will be equal to taxes receivable at the end of the previous year in SLC 72 0290 01. 

#### **Line 0215 - PLUS:  Amounts Added to Tax Bills for Collection Purposes Only.**

On this line report all amounts which have been added to the collector's roll for collection purposes only. These amounts are not reported in section 6, Amounts added 

to tax bill, in Schedule 22, Municipal and School Board Taxation. (Please note that actual amounts collected are reflected in line 0640 below.) 

A few examples of amounts reported in this line include tile drainage loans pursuant to the Tile Drainage Act, the cost of repairing unsafe buildings pursuant to the Building Code Act, the cost of removing fire hazards pursuant to the Fire Marshall's Act, fence viewers' judgements pursuant to the Line Fences Act, and the cost of destroying weeds pursuant to the Weed Control Act, etc. 

#### **Line 0220 - PLUS:  Tax Amounts Levied in the Year.**

This amount is automatically carried forward from SLC 26 9199 03. This amount does not include Payments In Lieu of taxes. 

#### **Line 0225 - PLUS:  Current Year Penalties and Interest**

Include penalties imposed in the current year and the interest imposed in the current year in respect of tax arrears.  Please refer to section 345 of the Municipal Act, 2001. 

#### **Line 0240 - LESS:  Total Cash Collections**

Cash collections are automatically carried forward from SLC 72 0699 09. 

Cash collections are equal to the sum of taxes collected for the current year, collections on taxes outstanding from the previous and prior years, penalties and interest and accounts added to tax bills for collection purposes only. 

#### **Line 0250 - LESS:  Tax Adjustments Before Allowances**

This amount is automatically carried forward from SLC 72 2899 09. 

#### **Line 0260 - LESS:  Tax Adjustments Not Applied to Taxation.**

This amount is automatically carried forward from SLC 72 4999 09. 

#### **Line 0280 - PLUS:  Other**

In the space provided please provide an explanation of the adjustment provided for in this line. In column 9, report the increase or decrease for the allowance for uncollectible taxes.  Also, include any other increases or decreases not reflected above. 

#### **Line 0290 - Taxes Receivable, End of Year**

Taxes receivable end of year (Line 0290) **equals** 

Taxes receivable, beginning of year (Line 0210) 

**PLUS:** Amounts added to tax bills for collection purposes only (Line 0215) **PLUS:** Tax amounts levied in the year (Line 0220) 

**PLUS:** Current year penalties and interest (Line 0225) 

**LESS:** Total cash collections (Line 0240) **LESS:** Tax adjustments before allowances. (Line 0250) **LESS:** Tax adjustments not applied to taxation (Line 0260) **PLUS:** Other (Line 0280) 

Taxes receivable at the end of the year reported in SLC 72 0290 09 of this schedule must be equal to taxes receivable in SLC 70 0699 01. 

### **Cash Collections (Schedule 72A)**

Cash collections consist of the collection of current year taxes, the collection of outstanding taxes from previous and prior years, penalties and interest, and amounts added to the tax bill for collection purposes only. 

Include payments received for railway rights of way and utility corridors in cash collections for current, previous, and prior years. 

#### **Line 0610 - Current Year's Tax**

Report the amount of the current year's tax which has been collected. 

#### **Line 0620 - Previous Year's Tax**

Include collections related to previous and prior year taxes. 

#### **Line 0630 - Penalties and Interest**

Report the amount of penalties and interest on this line.  However, if penalties and interest cannot be isolated from cash collections, the amounts should be reported on line 0610 (Current year's tax) and line 0620 (Previous year's tax). 

#### **Line 0640 - Amounts Added to Tax Bills for Collection Purposes Only.**

Report on this line amounts collected during the year; the amounts added to tax bills for collection purposes only.  If it is not possible to identify the amounts added to tax bills for collection purposes only, then include the collections in line 0610 or 0620. 

#### **Line 0690 - Other**

Report collections not included in lines 0610 through 0640. 

#### **Line 0699 - Total Cash Collections**

Total cash collections are equal to the sum of lines 0610 through 0690. 

## **Tax Adjustments Applied to Taxation (Schedule 72B)**

Adjustments reported in this section reduce tax revenue. 

Where possible, some cells have been pre-populated with information collected by OPTA. 

Municipal edits are permitted in all cells. Please remember to Save Changes. 

### **Description of Columns**

Columns record tax adjustments recoverable from school boards, the municipality, and the upper tier municipality.  The following columns are used: 

#### **Column 1 - School Boards:  English Public**

The tax adjustments recoverable from the English Public-school board should be reported in this column. 

#### **Column 2 - School Boards:  French Public**

The tax adjustments recoverable from the French Public-school board should be reported in this column. 

#### **Column 3 - School Boards:  English Separate**

The tax adjustments recoverable from the English   Separate school board should be reported in this column. 

#### **Column 4 - School Boards:  French Separate**

The tax adjustments recoverable from the French   Separate school board should be reported in this column. 

#### **Column 5 - School Boards: Other**

The tax adjustments recoverable from other school boards should be reported in this column. 

#### **Column 6 - Total Education**

The tax adjustments recoverable from all school boards should be displayed in this column.  The Total Education amount in column 6 is equal to the sum of columns 1 through 5. 

#### **Column 7 - Lower Tier (Single Tier)**

This column records tax adjustment funded from the general accounts of the local municipality. 

#### **Column 8 - Upper Tier**

In a two-tier system, lower tiers use this column to record tax adjustments recoverable from the upper tier municipality. 

#### **Column 9 - Total Tax Adjustments**

Total tax adjustments are equal to the sum of columns 6 through 8. 

### **Description of Lines**

In this section, several lines are used to identify specific tax adjustments.  The following is a description of lines used to report each of the tax adjustments. 

#### **Line 1000 - Taxes Collected on Behalf of “Other” Bodies (Municipal Act Section 353)**

Refers to a deficiency in taxes collected for another body.  On this line, record the amount of the deficiency shared by the lower-tier, upper-tier, and school boards in a two-tier system or by the single-tier and school boards.  Please refer directly to the Act. 

Do not include adjustments reported in lines 1010 to 1090. 

#### **Line 1010 - Write-off of Taxes (Municipal Act Section 354)**

Refers to taxes which have been deemed uncollectible by the treasurer or ruled uncollectible by a court decision and are to be recovered from the local municipality, upper-tier, and school board.  Enter the amounts of tax adjustments to be shared by the lower-tier, upper-tier, and school boards in a two-tier system or by the single-tier and school boards.  Please refer directly to the Act. 

#### **Line 1020 - Cancellation, Reduction, Refund of Taxes, Overcharges (Municipal Act Section 357/358)**

**Section 357** refers to cancellations, reductions, refunds, etc. of taxes approved by Council where an individual has applied to Council for tax relief due to specific circumstances outlined in this section of the Act.  Enter the amount of tax adjustments shared by the lower-tier, upper-tier, and school boards in a two-tier system or by the single-tier and school boards.  Please refer directly to the Act. 

**Section 358** refers to cancellation, reductions or refunds of taxes approved by Council in respect to clerical errors. Enter the amounts of tax adjustments to be shared by the lower-tier, upper-tier, and school boards in a two-tier system or by the single-tier and school boards.  Please refer directly to the Act. 

#### **Line 1030 - Cancellation, Reduction, or Refund of Taxes (Municipal Act Section 365)**

Refers to cancellation, reductions or refunds of taxes approved by Council in respect to residential/farm, farmlands, and managed forest properties.  Taxes are considered by Council to be unduly burdensome.  Enter the amounts of tax adjustments to be shared by the lower-tier, upper-tier, and school boards in a two-tier system or by the single-tier and school boards.  Please refer directly to the Act. 

**Line 1040 - ARB Decisions, Advisory Notice of Adjustment Due to an ARB Decision (Assessment Act 40)**

### **Assessment Review Board (ARB) Decisions:**

Include Assessment Review Board decisions under section 40 of the Assessment Act that result in a reduction of tax responsibility and Advisory Notices of Assessments given under section 19.1(7) of the Assessment Act.  Please refer directly to the Act. 

#### **Line 1050 - RFR (Assessment Act 39.1)**

### **Requests for Reconsiderations**

Include Requests for Reconsiderations under section 39.1 of the Assessment Act that result in a reduction of tax responsibility.  Please refer directly to the Act. 

#### **Line 1060 - Increase of Taxes, Error in Calculating Taxes (Municipal Act 359 & Municipal Act 359.1)**

**Section 359** refers to an increase of taxes upon application made by the treasurer of the local municipality on land in the year in respect of which the application is made to the extent of any undercharge caused by a gross or manifest error that is a clerical or factual error, including the transposition of figures, a typographical error or similar error, but not an error in judgement in assessing the land.  Please refer directly to the Act. 

**Section 359.1** refers to a case where, due to an error in the calculation of taxes under Part IX of the Municipal Act or under Part XXII.1, XXII.2 or XXII.3 of the old Act, the use of the amount of taxes referred to in paragraph 1 of subsection 329 (2) for the year in which the application is made which reflects what the taxes would have been on the 

land for the previous year if the error had not been made   Please refer directly to the Act. 

#### **Line 1070 - Post Roll Amended Notices (PRANs) (Assessment Act Section 32)**

Include Amended property assessment notices under the Assessment Act. 

This notification is made under section 32(1.1) of the Assessment Act. 

#### **Line 1080 - Special Amended Property Assessment Notices (SANs) (Assessment Act)**

Include Special Amended Property Notices on this line. 

These relate to a change in legislation. 

#### **Line 1090 - Tax Incentive Adjustments (TIAs) (Assessment Act)**

Include Tax Incentive Approval notifications on this line.  This notification is issued pursuant to section 39.1(7) of the Assessment Act. Other adjustments: Please see the link below for MPAC Notices: 

https://www.mpac.ca/HowAssessmentWorks/MPACNotices 

#### **Line 1099 - Subtotal**

The subtotal for lines 1000 to 1090 is automatically displayed on this line. 

#### **Line 1299 - Discounts for Advanced Payments (Municipal Act, Section 345 (10))**

This line only applies to lower tiers and single tiers (column 7). 

Enter discounts which apply to prepaid taxes under section 345 (10) (previously 399 (5)) of the Municipal Act. 

Please refer directly to the Act for further details. 

#### **Line 1499 - Tax Credit (Municipal Act, Section 474.3)**

Report tax credits under Section 474.3 of the Municipal Act (previously the Municipal Elderly Residents' Assistance Act). 

Please refer directly to the Act for further details. 

#### **Line 1699 - Tax Cancellation Low-Income Seniors and Disabled Persons (Municipal Act, Section 319)**

Under Sections 319 and 466 of the Municipal Act, single tier municipalities and upper tier municipalities may pass a by law providing for tax deferrals, cancellations, or other relief in respect of assessment related tax increases for low-income seniors or lowincome persons with disabilities.  This assistance also applies to tax increases for lower tier and school board purposes. 

**Tax relief is categorized as** :

Tax cancellations for low-income seniors, disabled persons, and report tax relief other than cancellations and deferrals.  Please note that deferrals under section Sections 319 and 466 (previously 373) of the Municipal Act are reported in Schedule 72, line 4210 in the section, Tax adjustments not applied to taxation. 

Please refer directly to the Act for further details. 

#### **Line 1810 - Rebates to Commercial Properties (Municipal Act, Section 362)**

Under Section 362 of the Municipal Act, Single tier municipalities and upper tier municipalities in a two-tier system may provide rebates to owners of Commercial and Industrial properties.  The costs of these rebates are shared proportionally by the single tier or upper tier and school boards. 

On this line, report rebates to Commercial properties. Please refer directly to the Act for further details. 

#### **Line 1820 - Rebates to Industrial Properties (Municipal Act, Section 362)**

Under Section 362 of the Municipal Act, Single tier municipalities and upper tier municipalities in a two-tier system may provide rebates to owners of Commercial and Industrial properties.  The costs of these rebates are shared proportionally by the single tier or upper tier and school boards. 

On this line, report rebates to Industrial properties.  Please refer directly to the Act for further details. 

#### **Line 1899 - Subtotal**

The subtotal for Rebates to Commercial and Industrial properties is automatically displayed on this line and equals the sum of lines 1810 and 1820. 

#### **Line 2099 - Rebates for Charities (Municipal Act, Section 361)**

Under Section 361 of the Municipal Act, upper tier and single tier municipalities may provide tax rebates to eligible charities which pay commercial or industrial taxes on properties occupied. In a two tier system, enter amounts shared by school boards, lower tiers and the upper tier. In a single tier, enter amounts shared by school boards and the single tier.  Please refer directly to the Act for further details. 

#### **Line 2299 - Vacant Unit Rebates (Municipal Act, Section 364)**

Under Section 364 of the Municipal Act, every local municipality shall have a program to provide tax rebates to owners of property that had vacant portions in the commercial and industrial property classes.  In a two-tier system, enter amounts shared by school boards, lower tiers and the upper tier.  In a single tier, enter amounts shared by school boards and the single tier.  Please refer directly to the Act for further details. 

#### **Line 2301 - Contaminated Property (Municipal Act, Section 365.1)**

Section 365.1 of the Municipal Act allows a local municipality to pass by-laws providing for the cancellation of all or a portion of the taxes for municipal and school purposes levied on one or more specified eligible properties, on such conditions as the municipality may determine, and a by-law may apply in respect of the rehabilitation period for a specified property, the development period for a specified property, or both. 

#### **Line 2399 - Reduction for Heritage Property (Municipal Act, Section 365.2)**

Section 365.2 of the Municipal Act which allows municipalities to establish a program, by bylaw, to provide a tax reduction or refund in respect of eligible heritage properties. The cost of the rebate may be shared with the lower tier, upper tier, and school boards in a two tier system or with the single tier and school boards.  Please refer directly to the Act for further details. 

#### **Line 2400 - Change in Assessment (Municipal Act, 365.3)**

Under Section 365.3  of the Municipal Act, If the assessment of a property for a year changes as a result of a request under section 39.1 of the Assessment Act, an appeal under section 40 of that Act, an application under section 46 of that Act or a correction made under subsection 32 (1.1) of that Act, tax relief provided under sections 319, 345, 356, 357, 358, 362, 364, 365, 365.1 and 365.2 and tax increases provided under section 359 shall be redetermined using the new taxes on property for the year based on the new assessment and the tax roll for the year shall be amended to reflect the determination.  2002, c. 17, Sched. A, s. 69; 2006, c. 32, Sched. A, s. 150; 2008, c. 7, Sched. O, s. 8; 2017, c. 10, Sched. 1, s. 53. 

#### **Lines 2890-2891 - Other**

Enter other tax adjustments which are not reported in any of the categories above. 

#### **Line 2899 - Total Tax Adjustments Before Allowances**

The Total tax adjustments before allowances on this line, equals the sum of Lines 1000 through 2893. 

Discounts for Advance Payments (Municipal Act, Section 345(10)) (Line 1299) Tax Credit (Municipal Act, Section 474.3) (Line 1499) 

Tax Cancellations - Low-Income Seniors and Disabled Persons (Line 1699) 

Municipal Act 362 Rebates to Commercial Properties (Line 1810) Municipal Act 362 Rebates to Industrial Properties (Line 1820) Subtotal, Rebates to Commercial and Industrial Properties (Line 1899) Rebates for Charities (Municipal Act, Section 361) (Line 2099) Vacant Unit Rebates (Municipal Act, Section 364) (Line 2299) Contaminated Property (Municipal Act, Section 365.1) (Line 2301) 

Reduction for Heritage Property (Municipal Act, Section 365.2) (Line 2399) 

Change in Assessment (Municipal Act, Section 365.3) (Line 2400) Other (Line 2890) Other (Line 2891) Other (Line 2892) Other (Line 2893) 

## **Tax Adjustments Not Applied to Taxation (Schedule 72B)**

The tax adjustments in this section do not reduce tax revenue for the current year.  The columns in this section are the same as in the previous section.  Please refer to the previous Description of Columns for information on each column. 

### **Description of Lines**

The following is a description of lines used to report each of the tax adjustments not applied to taxation. 

#### **Line 4010 - Tax Sale, Tax Registration Accounts**

Enter the amount contained in tax sale and tax registration accounts in column 7. 

#### **Line 4210 - Tax Deferral   Low-Income Seniors and Persons with Disabilities (Municipal Act, Section 319)**

Report the tax deferrals for low-income seniors and persons with disabilities under section 319 and 466 of the Municipal Act and other Acts. 

#### **Line 4420 - Net Impact of 5% Capping Limit Program**

In this line, record the aggregate impact of the capping tax adjustments from the frozen capping reports for all the capped property classes (Multi Residential, Commercial, and Industrial). 

The calculation of the capping tax adjustments for line 4420 recognizes that "taxation revenue" is to be recorded at full CVA tax responsibility as if capping did not apply. 

The capping tax adjustment for line 4420 applies to column 8: upper tier. 

The data to calculate the capping tax adjustments is available in OPTA under the 2016 capping reports: **Upper Tier Distribution of Capping Tax Adjustments.** 

Any amounts reflected for each property tax class in the column headed "municipal share" in the report:  Upper tier Distribution of Capping Tax Adjustments indicates a property class shortfall and is to be reported as an operating expense on Schedule 40 under general government SLC 40 0250 03. 

For single tier municipalities, the 2016 Capping Summary Report using Actual Rates reports reflects the tax adjustment amounts for each property tax class.  The amount reflected as Broad Class Grand Total for property tax class is to be reported as an operating expenditure on Schedule 40 under general government SLC 40 0250 03. 

The following chart provides an example of how to calculate the amount to be reported in SLC 72 4420 08. 

**Example:  How to calculate the amount to be reported in SLC 72 4420 08 Upper Tier Distribution of Capping Tax Adjustments**

**For Multi Residential** :

**If Levy* = 200,000** . 

Cap Impact = 86,692. Municipal Share=3,958. Net Adjustment= 82,734 

**For Commercial:**

**If Levy* = 400,000** 

Cap Impact = 9,183 Municipal Share = 0 Net Adjustment = 9,183 

**For Industrial:**

**If Levy* = 200,000** 

Cap Impact = 119,052 Municipal Share = 0 Net Adjustment = 119,052 

Municipal share represents share of shortfall: 

Positive amounts under net adjustments represent payments due from Lower Tier to Upper Tier 

Negative amounts under net adjustments represent payments due from Upper Tier to Lower Tier 

*Levy amount in this report reflects the Lower Tier levy only.  For the overall levy for each class (Lower Tier, Upper Tier, and School), please refer to the 2016 frozen capping reports for your municipality. 

**Multi Residential: Total CVA Levy (Lower Tier, Upper Tier & School): 600,000**

- Dr. Taxes Receivable = 600,000 

- Dr. Expenditure = 3,958 

- Dr. Accounts Receivable Upper Tier = 86,692 

- Cr. Taxes Receivable = 86,692 

- Cr. Accounts Payable Upper Tier = 3,958 

- Cr. Taxation Revenue = 600,000 

**Commercial: Total CVA Levy (Lower Tier, Upper Tier & School): 2,700,000**

- Dr. Taxes Receivable = 2,709,183 

- Cr. Accounts Payable Upper Tier = 9,183 

- Cr. Taxation Revenue = 2,700,000 

**Industrial: Total CVA Levy (Lower Tier, Upper Tier & School): 1,300,000**

- Dr. Taxes Receivable = 1,300,000 

- Dr. Accounts Receivable Upper Tier = 119,052 

- Cr. Taxes Receivable = 119,052 

- Cr. Taxation Revenue = 1,300,000 

**Summary:**

- Dr. Taxes Receivable = 4,609,183 (600,000+2,709,183+1300,000) 

- Dr. Expenditure = 3,958 

- Dr. Accounts Receivable Upper Tier = 205,744 (86,692+119,052) 

- Cr. Accounts Payable Upper Tier = 13,141 (3,958+9,183) 

- Cr. Taxes Receivable = 205,744 (86,692+119,052) 

- Cr. Taxation Revenue = 4,600,000 

Record on SLC 72 4420 08: 192,603 (205,744   13,141) 

#### **Lines 4890 – 4891 - Other**

Enter other nontax adjustments which are not reported in any of the categories above. 

#### **Line 4999 - Total Tax Adjustments Not Applied to Taxation**

The Total tax adjustments not applied to taxation on this line equals the sum of Lines 4010 through 4891. 

Tax Sale, Tax Registration Accounts (Line 4010) 

Tax Deferral – Low-Income Seniors and Disabled Persons (Line 4210) 

Net Impact of 5% Capping Limit Program (Line 4420) Other (Lines 4890 and 4891) 

## **Additional Information**

The following lines are used to report other information related to tax adjustments. 

### **Line 6010 - Recovery of Tax Deferrals**

On this line, report any taxes paid which were previously deferred. 

### **Line 7010 - Entitlement of School Boards**

In Co ordination with the Ministry of Education, this line was introduced to show the total Property Tax and Payment In Lieu entitlement of School Boards after adjustments. Amounts on this line are automatically calculated by the following formula. 

**Entitlement of School Board (Schedule 72, Line 7010)**

- = Total Taxes (Before Adjustments)  (Schedule 26, Line 9199) 

- + Total Payments In Lieu of Taxation (Schedule 26, Line 9599) 

   - Tax Adjustments Before Allowances (Schedule 72, Line 2899) 

   - Tax Adjustments Not Applied to Taxation (Schedule 72, Line 4999) 

- + Recovery of Tax Deferrals (Schedule 72, Line 6010) 

