**==> picture [235 x 67] intentionally omitted <==**

2025 Financial Information Return **Schedule 76 Government Business Enterprises (GBE)**

**Table of Contents**

SCHEDULE 76:  Government Business Enterprises (GBE) ............................................ 3
General Information ......................................................................................................... 3
Statement of Financial Position ....................................................................................... 3
Assets: ......................................................................................................................... 3
Line 0210 - Current Assets ....................................................................................... 3
Line 0220 - Capital Assets ........................................................................................ 3
Lines 0297 to 0298 - Other ....................................................................................... 3
Line 0299 - Total Assets ........................................................................................... 3
Liabilities: ..................................................................................................................... 4
Line 0410 - Current Liabilities ................................................................................... 4
Line 0420 - Long-Term Liabilities.............................................................................. 4
Lines 0497 to 0498 - Other ....................................................................................... 4
Line 0499 - Total Liabilities ....................................................................................... 4
Line 9910 - Net Equity .............................................................................................. 4
Line 0610 - Municipality’s Share ($) .......................................................................... 4
Statement of Operations: ................................................................................................ 4
Line 0810 - Revenues ............................................................................................... 4
Line 0820 - Expenses ............................................................................................... 5
Line 0830 - Net Income (Loss) Before Other Comprehensive Income ..................... 5
Line 0840 - Other Comprehensive Income ............................................................... 5
Line 9920 – Net Income (Loss) and Other Comprehensive Income ......................... 5
Line 1010 - Municipality’s Share ............................................................................... 5
Line 1020 - Dividends Paid. ...................................................................................... 5 

## **SCHEDULE 76:  Government Business Enterprises (GBE)**

## **General Information**

Please report the requested financial data that pertains to all entities deemed to be Government Business Enterprises (GBEs) as defined by Section 1300 of the Public Sector Accounting Handbook.  These include entities established under Ontario Regulation 599/06, Municipal Services Corporations, or the Municipal Act, 2001. 

**Please indicate the name of the GBE in each column and then list the following for each GBE.**

## **Statement of Financial Position**

### **Assets:**

#### **Line 0210 - Current Assets**

Report all the current assets on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. 

#### **Line 0220 - Capital Assets**

Report all the capital assets on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. 

#### **Lines 0297 to 0298 - Other**

Report all other assets on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs.  Please provide a text description of other. 

#### **Line 0299 - Total Assets**

Total Assets is automatically calculated. It is the sum for each column of  lines 0210 through 0298. 

### **Liabilities:**

#### **Line 0410 - Current Liabilities**

Report all the current liabilities on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. 

#### **Line 0420 - Long-Term Liabilities**

Report all the long-term liabilities on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. 

#### **Lines 0497 to 0498 - Other**

Report all other liabilities on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. Please provide a text description of other. 

#### **Line 0499 - Total Liabilities**

Total Liabilities is automatically calculated. It is the sum for each column of lines 0410 through 0498. 

#### **Line 9910 - Net Equity**

Net equity is automatically calculated by subtracting line 0499 from line 0299: 

**Net Equity = Total Assets – Total Liabilities**

#### **Line 0610 - Municipality’s Share ($)**

Report the municipality’s share of the GBE’s net equity in dollars $$ (not percentage) (line 9910). 

## **Statement of Operations:**

### **Line 0810 - Revenues**

Report all the revenues on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. 

### **Line 0820 - Expenses**

Report all the expenses on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. 

### **Line 0830 - Net Income (Loss) Before Other Comprehensive Income**

Net Income (Loss) before Other Comprehensive Income is automatically calculated by subtracting line 0820 from line 0810: 

**Net Income (Loss) Before Other Comprehensive Income**

**= Revenues – Expenses**

### **Line 0840 - Other Comprehensive Income**

Other Comprehensive Income includes revenues, expenses, gains, and losses that are not recognized in a GBE’s net income or loss but are still part of its overall profitability. This amount often reflects unrealized items like foreign currency adjustments, pension plan adjustments, and gains or losses on certain investments. 

### **Line 9920 – Net Income (Loss) and Other Comprehensive Income**

Net income and Other Comprehensive Income include both net income (loss) and Other Comprehensive Income. 

### **Line 1010 - Municipality’s Share**

Report the municipality’s share of the GBE’s net income (loss) (line 9920). 

### **Line 1020 - Dividends Paid.**

Report the dividends paid on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. 

