## **SCHEDULE 80: Statistical Information** 

## **General Information** 

The Schedule 80 series collects statistical information that is not collected elsewhere. This schedule series consists of sections 1 through 8. 

1. Municipal workforce profile 

2. Selected investments of own sinking funds as at December 31 

3. Municipal procurement this year 

4. Building permit information 

5. Insured value of physical assets 

6. Total dollar losses due to structural fires 

7. Alternate service delivery arrangements 

8. Consolidated local boards including joint local boards and all local entities set up by the Municipality 

   - (I) proportionally consolidated joint local boards 

   - (II) Fully consolidated local boards and any local entities set up by the municipality 

In Schedule 80, the number of columns and column headings change with each section to accommodate the information collected. 

## **1. MUNICIPAL WORKFORCE PROFILE (Schedule 80A)** 

Separate sections are provided for data pertaining to employees of the municipality and employees of joint local boards. 

Data is collected on the number of full-time and part-time funded positions, as well as the number of seasonal employees. The position categories are mutually exclusive. 

## **Description of Columns** 

## **Column 1 Full-time funded positions** 

Enter the number of full-time funded positions on a permanent or contractual basis, whether they are filled or not. 

## **Column 2 Part-time funded positions** 

Enter the number of funded positions where the employee works less than 30 hours a week, either on a permanent or contractual basis. Include only filled positions. 

## **Do not include volunteer positions such as volunteer fire fighters.** 

## **Column 3 Seasonal employees** 

Please report the actual number of seasonal employees. Seasonal positions are those where employment recurs each year but lasts less than a year. Example: Staff for summer recreational programs and crossing guards. 

## **Description of Lines** 

Lines are provided for broad service areas. Report employees of the municipality on lines 0205 through 0290. Employees of joint local boards which are fully and proportionally consolidated are reported on lines 0305 through 0390. For proportionally consolidated joint local boards, employees are to be shown on a proportional basis. 

Clerical staff should be included in the appropriate functional category. 

For each service area, select the appropriate column(s): full-time funded positions, parttime funded positions or seasonal employees. 

Do not include employees where service is provided by another municipality, the Ontario Provincial Police (OPP) or an external contractor. 

A line is also provided to record information on the percentage of the municipal workforce covered by collective agreements (Line 0300). 

**Line 0205 and 0305 Administration** 

Include all professional staff involved in general administration, including managerial, supervisory, salaried clerk-treasurer, treasurer, and clerk. 

If professional staff is identified by the type of responsibility, enter the positions in the appropriate category. For example, include the Public Works Commissioner and Public Works Administrator in the public works category. 

**Line 0210 and 0310 Fire** 

This line is automatically calculated. It is the sum of uniform and civilian fire staff. 

**Line 0211 and 0311 Fire - Uniform** 

Include all Fire-fighting personnel. **Do not include volunteer personnel** . 

**Line 0212 and 0312 Fire - Civilian** 

Enter the number of civilian fire staff on this line. (Administrative, management, support staff, etc.) 

**Line 0215 and 0315 Police** 

This line automatically calculates total uniform and civilian police staff. 

**Line 0216 and 0316 Police - Uniform** 

Enter the number of policing staff if policing is provided by the municipality. If policing is provided by the OPP do not report OPP staff. 

**Line 0217 and 0317 Police - Civilian** 

Enter the number of civilian police staff on this line. (Administrative, management, support staff, etc.) 

**Line 0260 and 0360 Court Security** 

This line automatically calculates the total uniform and civilian court security staff. 

**Line 0261 and 0361 Court Security – Uniform** 

Enter the number of uniform security staff. 

**Line 0262 and 0362 Court Security - Civilian** 

Enter the number of civilian court security staff on this line. (Administrative, management, support staff, etc.) 

**Line 0263 and 0363 Prisoner Transportation** 

This line automatically calculates the total uniform and civilian prisoner transportation staff. 

**Line 0264 and 0364 Prisoner Transportation – Uniform** 

Enter the number of uniform prisoner transportation staff. 

**Line 0265 and 0365 Prisoner Transportation – Civilian** 

Enter the number of civilian prisoner transportation staff on this line. (Administrative, management, support staff, etc.) 

**Line 0220 and 0320 Transit** 

This line includes transit staff only. Staff performing all other transportation duties should be reported under public works. 

## **Line 0225 and 0325 Public Works** 

Include staff performing environmental services. Include staff performing transportation services, other than transit services. Exclude staff performing functions specifically identified on other lines, such as parks and recreation. 

**Line 0227 and 0327 Ambulance** 

This line automatically calculates the total uniform and civilian ambulance staff. 

**Line 0228 and 0328 Ambulance - Uniform** 

Enter the number of uniform staff for Ambulance services. (Includes paramedics, drivers) 

**Line 0229 and 0329 Ambulance - Civilian** 

Enter the number of civilian ambulance staff on this line. (Administrative, management, support staff) 

**Line 0230 and 0330 Health Services** 

Include public health employees, inspectors, and cemetery employees. 

**Line 0235 and 0335 Homes for the Aged (Long term care facilities)** 

Include all staff employed in homes for the aged (long term care facilities). 

**Line 0240 and 0340 Other Social Services** 

Include childcare staff, social workers, and any other staff associated with social services. Exclude staff reported on line 0235 or 0335, Homes for the aged. 

**Line 0245 and 0345 Parks and Recreation** 

Include all staff associated with the provision of parks, recreation and cultural services, excluding libraries. 

**Line 0250 and 0350 Libraries** 

Include all library staff. 

**Line 0255 and 0355 Planning** 

Include staff performing planning functions, including planners and planning inspectors. 

**Line 0290 and 0390 Other** 

Include staff not specifically identified in administration and the functions listed on lines 0205 through 0255 or on lines 0305 through 0355. Examples include: clerical and professional staff that are not included in specific functions, parking staff, by-law enforcement officers and inspection officers of various kinds. 

**Line 0298 and 0398 SUBTOTAL** 

For each column, the subtotal for municipal employees is equal to the sum of lines 0205 through 0290 less embedded subtotals. 

The subtotal for employees of joint local boards is equal to the sum of lines 0305 through 0390 less embedded subtotals. 

**Line 0399 TOTAL** 

For each column, the total is equal to the sum of lines 0298 and 0398. 

**Line 0300 Proportion of municipal employees covered by 'collective agreements'** 

For each column, please report the percentage (%) of municipal staff covered by collective agreements. This is to be based on funded positions for full-time and parttime positions and on the number of actual employees for seasonal positions. 

## **2. SELECTED INVESTMENTS OF OWN SINKING FUNDS AS AT DECEMBER 31 (Schedule 80A)** 

**This section is required by Statistics Canada for its analysis of intergovernmental debt.** 

## **Line 0610 Own sinking funds** 

On this line enter the amount of sinking funds invested in debt issued by the municipality, other municipalities and school boards, the province, and the federal government in the appropriate column. 

## **Description of Columns** 

**Column 1 Own municipality** 

Enter the amount of sinking funds invested in own debt. 

## **Column 2 Other municipalities, school boards** 

Enter the amount of sinking funds invested in the debt of school boards and other municipalities. 

## **Column 3 Provincial** 

Enter the amount of sinking funds invested in provincial debt. 

## **Column 4 Federal** 

Enter the amount of sinking funds invested in federal debt. 

## **3. MUNICIPAL PROCUREMENT THIS YEAR (Schedule 80A)** 

## **This section gathers information required under the authority of the OntarioQuebec Procurement Agreement.** 

A construction contract is defined in the Agreement as a contract regarding the construction, reconstruction, demolition, repair or renovation of a building, structure or other civil engineering or architectural work. It also includes site preparation, 

excavation, drilling, seismic investigation, the supply of products and materials, 

equipment and machinery if these are included and incidental to a construction contract, as well as the installation and repair of fixtures of a building, structure or other civil engineering or architectural work. It excludes professional consulting services related to the construction contract. 

## **Line 1010 Total construction contracts awarded** 

This line refers to the total number of construction contracts, as defined above, which were awarded by your municipality during the year. 

**Line 1020 Construction contracts awarded at $100,000 or greater** 

This line refers to contracts awarded where the value of each contract equals or exceeds $100,000. 

## **Descriptions of Columns** 

## **Column 1 Number of contracts** 

Enter the number of construction contracts awarded by your municipality during the year 

for each category listed. 

## **Column 2 Value of contracts** 

Enter the value of contracts awarded by your municipality for each category listed. 

## **4. BUILDING PERMIT INFORMATION (Schedule 80A)** 

**This section collects information on building permits and the total value of building permits of new construction by property class.** 

## **Line 1210 Residential properties** 

Residential properties include single family and small multi-residential properties (6 units or less). 

## **Line 1220 Multi-residential properties** 

Multi-residential properties include properties in the multi-residential property class (7 units or more). 

**Line 1230 All other property classes** 

All other property classes refer to properties in the commercial class, industrial class, and all other property classes. 

## **Line 1299 Subtotal** 

The subtotal is automatically calculated. It is equal to the sum of lines 1210 through line 1230. 

## **Descriptions of Columns** 

## **Column 1 Number of building permits** 

Enter the total number of building permits for each property class identified. 

**Column 2 Total value of building permits** 

Enter the total value of construction associated with the issuance of building permits for each property class identified. 

## **5. INSURED VALUE OF PHYSICAL ASSETS (Schedule 80A)** 

**Enter the insured value of the following tangible capital assets:** 

## **Line 1410 Buildings** 

Enter the insured value of buildings on this line. Include the insured value of contents. 

**Line 1420 Machinery and equipment** 

Enter the insured value of machinery and equipment on this line. 

## **Line 1430 Vehicles** 

Enter the insured value of municipal vehicles on this line. 

## **Line 1497 Other** 

Please specify other significant fixed assets and enter the insured value on this line. 

**Line 1498 Other** 

Please specify other significant fixed assets and enter the insured value on this line. 

## **Line 1499 Subtotal** 

The subtotal is automatically calculated. It is equal to the sum of lines 1410 through 1498. 

## **6. TOTAL DOLLAR LOSSES DUE TO STRUCTURAL FIRES (Schedule 80A)** 

**Line 1510 Losses due to structural fires, averaged over 3 years (– 2020 - 2022)** 

Determine the average dollar loss due to structural fires for the reporting year and the two previous years. Note that fire losses are averaged over three years in order to even out the impact of one-time anomalies. Pertains to all structures within a municipality (includes municipal structures) **.** 

A structural fire is an instance of destructive and uncontrolled burning of a building or other structure or its contents, which may or may not be due to an explosion. Examples of other structures include a transmission tower, lighthouse, shed, kiosk, and gazebo. 

## **A structural fire does not include:** 

- **An explosion that does not result in fire.** 

- **A vehicle fire or explosion, unless the vehicle is located inside a structure (in which case it is considered part of the structure's contents).** 

## **An open area fire or explosion, as might occur with forest, hedge or brush.** 

- **An incident other than a fire that results in a fire department emergency response, such as an over pressure rupture, false fire call, rescue, public hazard or medical call.** 

The definition of total dollar losses is taken from the Ontario Fire Marshal's Occurrence Reporting Manual, which is used by municipal fire departments as a guide in completing Standard Incident Reports. 

Estimated dollar loss is defined as the cost of actual damage to property and property contents. This amount includes direct losses resulting from fire, explosion, smoke, water or other destruction associated with firefighting operations. Not to be included in this total are revenue losses or costs involved due to business interruption, loss of good will, loss of sale, production down time, vacancies or environmental contamination cleanup. In accordance with Canadian insurance practices, damages and/or destruction of buildings, installed equipment and contents shall be estimated and reported at actual replacement value. For buildings under demolition or other property of little value, the dollar loss is the salvage value of the property lost in the fire. 

## **7. ALTERNATE SERVICE DELIVERY ARRANGEMENTS (Schedule 80B)** 

**This section itemizes the top services provided through alternate service delivery arrangements. Line 1601 to 1610** 

On the lines provided, list up to ten top services which the municipality currently provides through an alternate service delivery arrangement. Alternative service delivery arrangements refer to services which are not directly provided by the municipality. Examples include joint service agreements and contracting out. 

Select the top services according to expenses in the statement of operations. However, only list those services where significant expenses are involved in contracting out. This may result in a list of fewer than ten services. 

## **Descriptions of Columns** 

## **Column 1 Municipal service** 

List the top municipal services which are currently provided through an alternate service delivery arrangement. 

## **Column 3 Schedule 40 Functional heading** 

When the FIR line number is entered in column 2, the name of the corresponding sub function will automatically appear in this column. 

## **Column 2 Schedule 40 FIR Line Number** 

Enter the line number from Schedule 40 for the sub function which best describes the municipal service. 

For example, a solid waste collection contract would fall under the "solid waste collection" sub function and line 0840 would be entered. 

## **Column 4 Statement of Operations Expense** 

For each municipal service listed in column 1, determine the amount of operating expense included in Schedule 40, column 4 (Contracted services) which pertain to the particular alternate service delivery arrangement. 

## **Column 5 Comments** 

The completion of this column is optional. This space can be used to provide a brief description of the alternate service delivery arrangement. The amount of space is expandable. 

## **8. CONSOLIDATED LOCAL BOARDS INCLUDING JOINT LOCAL BOARDS AND ALL LOCAL ENTITIES SET UP BY THE MUNICIPALITY (Schedule 80C)** 

**Part (I)** identifies joint local boards which are proportionally consolidated. 

**Part (II)** identifies local boards and local entities which are fully consolidated by the municipality. 

## **Line 0801 to 0849 (I) proportionally consolidated joint local boards** 

List all local boards which are proportionally consolidated by the municipality. Include 

joint boards and any other local corporate entities set up by the municipality to provide service to ratepayers. 

**Line 0851 to 0899 (II) fully consolidated local boards and any local entities set up by themunicipality** 

## List all local boards and other entities which are fully consolidated. 

## **Descriptions of Columns** 

**Column 1 Name of board or entity** 

Enter the name of the local board or other local entity. 

**Column 3 Board description** 

Select a Board Description from the drop-down List. 

## **Column 2 Board code** 

The Board Code corresponds to the Board Description selected in column 3. 

## **Column 4 Proportion of total municipal contributions consolidated** 

In **part (I),** report the municipality's percentage share of total municipal contributions to the local board or entity. 

In **part (II),** 100% is automatically shown for each fully consolidated local board or entity. 

**Column 5 Municipality's share of total municipal contributions ($)** 

This column applies to part (I) only. Enter the dollar amount of contributions made by your municipality to the board or entity. 

**Column 6 Municipality's share of total fee revenues** 

This column applies to part (I) only. Enter the dollar amount of fee revenues received by your municipality from the local board or entity. This amount is equal to total fee revenues received by the local board or entity times the percentage reported in column 4. 

