## **Schedule 76: GOVERNMENT BUSINESS ENTERPRISES (GBE)** 

Please report the requested financial data that pertains to all entities deemed to be Government Business Enterprises (GBEs) as defined by section 1300 of the PSA Handbook.  These include entities established under Ontario Regulation 599/06, Municipal Services Corporations, of the Municipal Act, 2001. 

## **Please list the following for each GBE** . 

## **Statement of Financial Position** 

## **Assets:** 

## **Line 0210 Current Assets** 

Report all the current assets on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. 

## **Line 0220 Capital Assets** 

Report all the capital assets on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. 

## **Line 0297 Other** 

Report all other assets on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. Please provide a text description of other. 

## **Line 0298 Other** 

Report all other assets on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. Please provide a text description of other. 

## **Line 0299 Total Assets** 

Total Assets is automatically calculated. It is the sum of lines 0210 through 0298. 

## **Liabilities:** 

## **Line 0410 Current Liabilities** 

Report all the current liabilities on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. 

## **Line 0420 Long-term Liabilities** 

Report all the long-term liabilities on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. 

## **Line 0497 Other** 

Report all other liabilities on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. Please provide a text description of other. 

## **Line 0498 Other** 

Report all other liabilities on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. Please provide a text description of other. 

## **Line 0499 Total Liabilities** 

Total Liabilities is automatically calculated. It is the sum of lines 0410 through 0498. 

## **Line 9910 Net Equity** 

Net equity is automatically calculated by subtracting line 0499 from line 0299: 

**Total Assets – Total Liabilities = Net Equity** 

## **Line 0610 Municipality’s Share** 

Report the municipality’s share of the GBE’s net equity (line 9910). 

**Statement of Operations:** 

**Line 0810 Revenues** 

Report all the revenues on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. 

## **Line 0820 Expenses** 

Report all the expenses on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. 

**Line 9920 Net Income (Loss** ) 

Net Income (Loss) is automatically calculated by subtracting line 0810 from line 0810: 

## **Revenues – Expenses = Net Income (Loss)** 

**Line 1010 Municipality’s share** Report the municipality’s share of the GBE’s net income (loss) (line 9920). **Line 1020 Dividends paid** Report the dividends paid on this line for all entities deemed to be GBEs. 

