## **Schedule 51: Consolidated Schedule of Tangible Capital Assets** 

The Schedule 51 series collects the net book value of tangible capital assets by function (51A) and asset class (51B), and construction-in-process by function (51C) 

Refer to the FIR Instructions section on functional categories for definitions of specific functions. 

**==> picture [38 x 38] intentionally omitted <==**

## **Ensure tangible capital assets are included in the appropriate functional categories. Ministries use information from the FIR, including Schedule 51, to determine eligibility for certain grants and programs.** 

## **Municipalities that do not fill out Schedule 51 properly may be deemed ineligible for certain grants. If you require assistance classifying tangible capital assets, contact: Fir.mah@ontario.ca** 

## **Transfers between functional categories:** 

Transfers between functional categories may be recorded by: 

## **(a) Adjusting opening balances** 

- Decrease the opening cost balance (column 2) of the previous functional classification by the original cost of the asset 

- Increase the opening cost balance (column 2) of the new functional classification by the original cost of the asset (the same amount as the previous step) 

- Decrease the opening amortization balance (column 7) of the previous functional classification by the total accumulated amortization balance of the asset as at the end of the prior year 

- Increase the opening amortization balance (column 7) of the new functional classification by the total accumulated amortization balance of the asset as at the end of the prior year (the same amount as the previous step) 

## **(b) In-year adjustments** 

- Record the original cost of the asset as a positive amount in the disposal’s column (column 4) of the previous functional classification 

- Record the original cost of the asset as a negative amount in the disposal’s column (column 4) of the new functional classification 

- Record the total accumulated amortization balance of the asset at the end of the prior year as a positive amount in the amortization disposal column (column 9) of the previous functional classification 

- Record the total accumulated amortization balance of the asset at the end of the prior year as a negative amount in the amortization disposal column (column 9) of the new functional classification 

## **Schedule 51A: Tangible Capital Assets by Function** 

## **Column 1: Opening Net Book Value of tangible capital assets** 

This column is automatically populated from the previous year’s closing Net Book Value of tangible capital assets. 

## **Cost of Tangible Capital Assets:** 

## **Column 2: Opening Cost Balance** 

Column 2 includes the opening balance of the cost of assets.  This column is automatically prepopulated from the previous year’s closing cost balance. 

## **Column 3: Additions and Betterments** 

Column 3 includes all costs related to the purchase, construction, and development of tangible capital assets as per _PS 3150 Tangible capital assets_ . This also includes donated/contributed tangible capital assets and betterments. 

## **Column 4: Disposals** 

In Column 4, record the cost for assets that were sold, traded-in, destroyed, lost, or abandoned. 

## **Column 5: Write downs** 

In Column 5, record the permanent decline in the value of tangible capital assets. 

## **Column 6: Closing Cost Balance** 

The year-end closing cost balance is automatically calculated as follows: 

|<br> <br>**Closing Cost Balance**<br>**=**<br>**+**<br>**-**<br>**-**|**Opening Cost Balance**<br>**Additions and Betterments**<br>**Disposals**<br>**Write Downs**|**Column 2**<br>**Column 3**<br>**Column 4**<br>**Column 5**|
|---|---|---|



## **Amortization** 

## **Column 7: Opening Amortization Balance** 

Column 7 includes the opening accumulated amortization balance. This column is automatically pre-populated from the previous year’s closing accumulated amortization balance. Accumulated amortization is the cumulative amortization of assets up to a certain point in time. 

## **Column 8: Annual amortization** 

In Column 8, record the cost reported as an amortization expense in schedule 40 on column 16. 

## **Column 9: Amortization Disposal** 

In Column 9, report the sum of the accumulated amortization applicable to disposals or write downs. 

## **Column 10: Closing Amortization Balance** 

The year-end closing accumulated amortization balance is automatically calculated as follows: 

|<br>**Closing Amortization**<br>**Balance**<br>**=**<br>**+**<br>**-**|**Opening Amortization Balance**<br>**Annual Amortization**<br>**Amortization Disposal**|**Column 7**<br>**Column 8**<br>**Column 9**|
|---|---|---|



## **Column 11: Closing Net Book Value** 

The year-end closing net book value is automatically calculated as follows: 

**Closing Cost Balance - Closing Amortization Balance = Closing Net Book Value Column 6 – Column 10 = Column 11 NOTE:  SCHEDULE 51A: NET BOOK VALUE (NBV) SHOULD NEVER BE NEGATIVE!** 

## **Schedule 51B: Segmented by Asset Class** 

## **Please ensure tangible capital assets are segmented by asset class only.** 

## **General Capital Assets** 

General capital assets include tangible capital assets (TCA) that are not considered part of the Infrastructure Asset class. Refer to the definition of Infrastructure Class for more details. 

General capital assets include, TCAs in the following classes: Parks, Recreation facilities, Fire, EMS, Police, Waste Collection and Disposal, and Landfills. Lists of examples provided in the FIR instructions for Schedule 51B are not exhaustive. 

## **Line 2005 Land** 

Land consists of real property in the form of a plot, lot, or area. 

Include all expenditures made to acquire land and ready it for use, where improvements are considered permanent in nature. Examples of expenditures include: purchase price, closing costs, grading, filling, draining, clearing, and removal of old buildings (net of salvage), assumption of liens or mortgages, and any additional land improvements that have an indefinite life. 

## **Line 2010 Land Improvements** 

Land improvements consist of betterments, site preparation and site improvements (other than buildings) that ready land for its intended use, which generally decay or break down over time. 

Land improvements that are removable and can degrade or deplete over the course of time through use or due to the elements, should be separately capitalized and their value amortized over the useful life of the improvement. 

General capital land improvement examples include: landfill site development, construction of driveways, parking lots, retaining walls, bike paths in parks, drop off locations, sidewalks, fencing, patios, water fountains, outdoor swimming or wading pools, ball diamonds, soccer fields, irrigation systems, and tennis courts. 

## **Line 2020 Buildings** 

General capital buildings include all structures that provide shelter from the elements which function independent of an infrastructure network. 

Examples include: EMS stations, bus transit facilities, sport and recreation facilities, office buildings, fire/police stations, libraries, pavilions, change rooms, park washrooms & concession buildings, band shells, ticket kiosks, crematoriums, chapels, mausoleums, waste depots, recycling facilities 

## **Line 2030 Machinery & Equipment** 

General capital machinery and equipment include apparatuses, tools, devices, implements or instruments that likely use energy (for ex. human, electrical, hydraulic fuel, or thermal) to facilitate a process, function or completion of a task. 

Machinery and equipment may also include furniture and fixtures. It may be installed within a building but is generally capable of being moved and reinstalled at a different location (it is not permanently affixed to or integrated into the building or structure in which it resides). 

## **Line 2040 Vehicles** 

General capital vehicles include means of transportation, usually having wheels, used for transporting persons or things, or for towing purposes. 

Vehicles include automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycle, and boats. 

**Line 2097 Other** Please enter description **Line 2098 Other** Please enter description 

**Line 2099 Total General Capital Assets** 

This line is automatically calculated. It is the sum of lines 2005 through 2098. 

## **Infrastructure Assets** 

Tangible capital assets are classified as ‘Infrastructure Assets’ if the assets are linear in nature. Linear assets and their associated components are generally constructed or arranged in a continuous and connected network. 

Infrastructure assets include: Transportation Infrastructure (Roads –including cycling lanes, bridges, tunnels, public transit rail line portion only, drainage systems), Utilities (telephone, gas and electrical), and Environmental Infrastructure (water delivery systems, waste water treatment, storm drainage systems). 

## **Line 2205 Land** 

Land for line 2205 consists of real property in the form of a plot, lot, or area that is associated with infrastructure. 

Line 2205 land includes land under roads and land associated with road allowances, sewage treatment plant sites, and pump station properties. 

## **Line 2210 Land Improvements** 

Report land improvements as defined in the General Capital asset class that is associated with infrastructure. 

Examples include: parking lots and driveways for water/waste water sites, and site improvements such as grading at works yards whose purpose is to serve as a base for maintaining Infrastructure. 

## **Line 2220 Buildings** 

Reports buildings as defined in the "General Capital" asset class associated with infrastructure. 

Examples include: wastewater treatment control buildings, water supply buildings, buildings in works yards dedicated to Infrastructure maintenance, and rail transit facilities. 

## **Line 2230 Machinery & Equipment** 

Report machinery and equipment as defined in the General Capital asset class that is associated with infrastructure. 

## **Line 2240 Vehicles** 

Reports vehicles as defined in the General Capital asset class associated with infrastructure. 

## **Line 2250 Linear Assets** 

The Linear assets sub class applies only to “Infrastructure assets.” It has no “General Capital” counterpart. 

Linear assets are assets generally constructed or arranged in a continuous and connected network. 

This Includes connected: 

1. Surface systems such as roads, sidewalks, bridges, drainage ditches, streetlights, and transit rail lines; and 

2. Underground systems such as water distribution pipe systems, wastewater collection pipe systems, manholes, catch basins, and storm drainage collection systems and tunnels 

**Line 2297 Other** Please enter description **Line 2298 Other** Please enter description **Line 2299 Total Infrastructure Assets** 

**This line is automatically calculated. It is the sum of lines 2205 through 2298.** 

**Line 9920 Total Capital Assets This line is automatically calculated. It is the sum of lines 2099 and 2299** . 

## **Line 2405 Construction-in-progress (51 9910 04)** 

**This line automatically carried forward from Schedule 51C line 9910 column 4.** 

**Line 9921 Total Tangible Capital Assets and Construction-in-progress** 

**This line automatically calculated. It is the sum of lines 9920 and 2405** . **NOTE:  SCHEDULE 51A & 51B:  NET BOOK VALUE (NBV) SHOULD NEVER BE NEGATIVE!** 

## **Schedule 51C: Construction-in-progress** 

This schedule captures construction-in-progress by function. 

## **Column 1: Opening Balance** 

This column is automatically populated by the ending construction-in-progress balance from the previous year. 

## **Column 2: Expenditures in Current Year** 

In Column 2, enter by function the costs incurred in the current year for capital work not yet completed. 

## **Column 3: Less: Assets Capitalized** 

In Column 3, enter by function the tangible capital assets capitalized in the current year. 

## **Column 4: Closing Balance** 

This column is automatically calculated as follows: 

|**Closing Construction-in-Progress Balance**<br>**=**<br>**+**<br>**-**|**Opening Balance**<br>**Expenditures in year**<br>**Assets Capitalized**|**Column 1**<br>**Column 2**<br>**Column 3**|
|---|---|---|



