## **Schedule 53: Consolidated Statement of Change in Net Financial Assets (Net Debt) and Sources of Financing for Tangible Capital Asset Acquisition Financing/Donations** 

## **Consolidated Statement of Change in Net Financial Assets (Net Debt)** 

The statement of change in net financial assets (net debt) explains the difference between a municipality’s surplus or deficit and its change in net debt in the same reporting year.  This statement provides for the reporting of the acquisition of tangible capital assets and other significant items that have an impact on the difference between the annual surplus or deficit and the change in net financial assets or net debt. 

## **Line 1010 Annual Surplus (Deficit)** 

This line is automatically populated from line 2099, Schedule 10, Consolidated Statement of Operations: Revenue. 

## **Line 1020 Acquisition of tangible capital assets** 

Report the acquisition of tangible capital assets. 

## **Line 1030 Amortization of tangible capital assets** 

Amortization of tangible capital assets is automatically populated from Schedule 51-line 9910 column 8. 

## **Line 1031 Contributed (Donated) tangible capital assets** 

Report the contribution/donation of tangible capital assets from developers, etc. 

## **Line 1032 Change in construction-in-progress** 

Report the change in construction-in-progress of tangible capital assets **.** 

## **Line 1040 (Gain)/Loss on sale of tangible capital assets** 

Report the excess or deficiency of proceeds from the disposal/and or sale of tangible capital assets over net book value. 

## **Line 1050** 

## **Proceeds on sale of tangible capital assets** 

Report the proceeds on sale of tangible capital assets. 

## **Line 1060 Write-downs of tangible capital assets** 

Report the write-downs of tangible capital assets. 

## **Line 1070 Other:** 

Please describe other. 

## **Line 1071 Other** 

Please describe other. 

## **Line 1099 Subtotal:** 

The subtotal is automatically calculated. It is the sum of lines 1020 through 1071. 

## **Line 1210 Change in supplies inventories** 

Report the difference between the cost of acquiring and consuming supplies inventories. 

## **Line 1220 Change in prepaid expenses** 

Report the difference between costs that are prepaid during the year and prepaid costs that are expensed. 

## **Line 1230 Other:** Please describe other. 

## **Line 1299** 

## **Subtotal:** 

The subtotal is automatically calculated. It is the sum of lines 1220 through 1230. 

## **Line 1410 (Increase) decrease in net financial assets (net debt** 

The (increase) decrease in net financial assets (net debt) is automatically calculated. It is the sum of lines 10, 1099, and 1299. 

## **Line 1420 Net financial assets (net debt), beginning of year** 

This line is automatically populated from the previous year’s ending net financial assets (net debt). 

## **Line 1421 Other Comprehensive income or (loss)** 

Report other comprehensive income or losses from the Statement of Remeasurement Gains and Losses. 

## **Line 9910 Net financial assets (net debt), end of year** 

The ending net financial assets (net debt) is automatically calculated as the sum of lines 1410 and 1420. 

## **Sources of Financing for TCA Acquisitions/Donations:** 

**This section captures the method of financing of the acquisition of tangible capital assets as shown on Schedule 53-line 1020 column 01.** 

## **LONG TERM LIABILITIES INCURRED** 

## **On the following lines report long term liabilities issued under the following programs:** 

**Line 0205          Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC) Line 0210          Ontario Financing Authority Line 0215          Commercial Area Improvement Program Line 0220          Other Ontario housing programs** 

**On the following lines, report debt by type where it has not been listed under any of the programs listed on lines 0205 through 0230:** 

**Line 0235          Serial debentures Line 0240          Sinking fund debentures Line 0245          Long term bank loans Line 0250         Long term reserve fund loans Line 0255          Lease purchase agreements (Tangible capital leases) Line 0260          Construction financing debentures Line 0265          Infrastructure Ontario Line 0297          Other:  Please enter description Line 0298          Other:  Please enter description** 

**Line 0299          Subtotal: The subtotal of long-term liabilities incurred is the sum of lines 0205 through 0298.** 

## **FINANCING FROM DEDICATED REVENUE** 

## **Line 0405 Municipal Property Tax by Levy** 

Report revenues specifically generated for the acquisition of tangible capital assets from the municipality’s property tax levy including property tax revenues generated from special area rates. 

## **Line 0406 Reserves and Reserve Funds** 

This line is automatically calculated from Schedule 60-line 1012 column 2 plus Schedule 60line 1012 column 3. (SLC 60 1012 02 + 03) 

Reserves and reserve funds that have been utilized during the year for the acquisition of Tangible Capital Assets are reported on this line. 

## **Line 0410 Municipal User Fee & Service Charges** 

Report revenues specifically generated for the acquisition of tangible capital assets from municipal user fee and service charges. 

## **Line 0415 Development Charges** 

This line is automatically populated from Schedule 61-line 0299 column 8. 

Development charges revenues utilized in the reporting year that were generated for the acquisition of tangible capital assets are reported on this line. 

## **Line 0416 Recreation land (The Planning Act)** 

This line is automatically populated from Schedule 60-line 1032 column 1. 

Recreation land revenues utilized in the reporting year that were generated for the acquisition of tangible capital assets are reported on this line. 

## **Line 0419** 

## **Donations** 

Report donation revenues received for the acquisition of tangible capital assets. 

**Line 0420 Other:** Report other revenues, please describe other. **Line 0446 Proceeds from the sale of Tangible Capital Assets, etc.** 

Report the proceeds from the sale of tangible capital assets that have been used to acquire tangible capital assets on this line. 

## **Line 0447 Investment income** 

Report investment income or interest income used to acquire tangible capital assets. 

## **Line 0448 Prepaid special charges** 

Report any prepaid special charges used to acquire tangible capital assets. 

**Line 0495 Other:** Report other revenues received, please describe other. **Line 0496 Other:** Report other revenues received, please describe other. **Line 0497 Other:** Report other revenues received, please describe other. **Line 0498 Other:** Report other revenues received, please describe other. **Line 0501 Subtotal: Financing from dedicated revenue: Sum of lines 0405 to 0498** 

## **GOVERNMENT TRANSFERS** 

## **Line 0425 Capital Grants: Federal** 

This line is automatically calculated from Schedule 10, Schedule 12 and Schedule 60. 

This line excludes the Federal Gas Tax grants. Federal gas tax grants are shown on Schedule 53-line 0440 column 1. 

Federal capital grants received for the acquisition of tangible capital assets and utilized in the reporting year are reported on this line. 

Calculation:  SLC 12 9910 06 – (SLC 10 4099 01 –SLC 60 1047 01) 

## **Line 0430 Capital Grants: Provincial** 

This line is automatically calculated from Schedule 10, Schedule 12, and Schedule 60. 

This line excludes the Provincial Gas Tax funding for transit. Provincial gas tax grants are shown on Schedule 53-line 0445 column 1. 

Provincial capital grants received for the acquisition of tangible capital assets and utilized in the reporting year are reported on this line. 

Calculation: SLC 12 9910 05 – (SLC 10 4019 01 – SLC 60 1045 01) 

## **Line 0435 Capital Grants: Other Municipalities** 

This line is automatically calculated Schedule 12-line 9910 column 7. 

Grants received from the other municipalities for the acquisition of tangible capital assets and utilized in the reporting year are reported on this line. 

## **Line 0440 Canada Gas Tax** 

This line is automatically populated from Schedule 10-line 4099 column 1. 

Federal gas tax revenues received and utilized in the reporting year to acquire tangible capital assets are reported on this line. 

## **Line 0445 Provincial Gas Tax** 

This line is automatically populated from Schedule 10-line 4019 column 1. 

Provincial gas tax revenues received and utilized in the reporting year to acquire tangible capital assets are reported on this line. 

## **Line 0502 Subtotal: Government Transfers** 

This line is automatically calculated. It is the sum of lines 0425 through 0445. 

## **Line 0499 Subtotal: (Dedicated Revenue and Government Transfers)** 

This line is automatically calculated. It is the sum of line 0501 and line 0502. 

## **Line 0610 Contributed (Donated) Tangible Capital Assets** 

This line automatically populated by multiplying line 1031 in this schedule by -1. 

## **Line 9920 Total Municipal Capital Financing** 

This line is the sum of lines 0499 and 0610. 

## **Line 0810 Unexpended Capital Financing or (Unfinanced Capital Outlay)** 

Both unexpended capital financing and unfinanced capital outlay measure the difference between acquisition of tangible capital assets plus donated tangible capital assets and total capital financing. 

Unexpended capital financing represents a surplus in capital financing and indicates financing received to date exceeds capital expenditures to date. 

Unfinanced capital outlay represents a shortfall in capital financing and indicates capital expenditures exceed financing received to date. 

