## **SCHEDULE 02: Declaration of the Municipal Treasurer** 

## **General Instructions** 

The Declaration affirms that all schedules agree with the books and records of the municipality and its consolidated entities and that the schedules have been completed in accordance with the instructions. 

The Declaration of the Municipal Treasurer is labelled Schedule 02 in the FIR workbook. 

Once you’re ready to submit the return, you will be asked to tick two boxes: 

The Declaration of the Municipal Treasurer will be displayed, check the boxes to _**acknowledge that:**_ and select  _**OK**_ 

**==> picture [369 x 340] intentionally omitted <==**

## **Description of Lines** 

Lines 0020 to 0028 should contain the name, phone number, fax and email address of a contact person who can answer questions regarding information in the FIR. 

Questions regarding the information contained in the Schedules should be addressed to: 

|<br>to:|||
|---|---|---|
|**Line**|<br>**0020**|**Name**|
|**Line**|<br>**0022**|**Telephone**|
|**Line**|<br>**0024**|**Fax**|
|**Line**|<br>**0028**|**Email (Required)**|



The following lines contain information on the Municipal Website, Auditor, Audit Firm and Treasurer: 

|**Line**|<br>**0030**|**Website address of municipality**|
|---|---|---|
|**Line**|<br>**0091**|**Municipal Auditor**|
|**Line**|<br>**0092**|**Municipal Audit Firm**|
|**Line**|<br>**0095**|**Municipal Audit’s email**|
|**Line**|<br>**0090**|**Municipal Treasurer**|
|**Line**|<br>**0093**|**Municipal Treasurer Email (Required)**|
|**Line**|<br>**0094**|**Date**|
|||<br>Enter the date the schedules are completed.|
|||The date automatically displays the current date.|



**Signature of Municipal Treasurer The signature of the municipal treasurer has been replaced by an electronic signature** . 

Please see the general instructions above. 

## **Line 0077 Method used to allocate Program Support to other functions in Schedule** 

Select one of the methods from the pull-down menu. If this is not completed a critical error will be triggered. If “other method” is selected, please describe method for allocating Program Support in line 0078. 

If “other method is selected in line 0077, the cell in line 0078 will turn white indicating text can be entered. Space will expand as text is entered. 

## **Municipal Data** 

Municipalities enter data on households, population and youth population in the following lines. 

## **Line 0040 Households** 

Households, refers to common households and include residential units, residential farm units, recreational dwelling units and Ontario Housing Corporation units. 

Households should consist of the number of households on the assessment roll which was used to set taxes in the reporting year. The data originates in the year-end Summary of Assessment provided by the Municipal Property Assessment Corporation (MPAC) and used for taxation in the following year. 

Households for the **2021** reporting year should be based on the 2020 year-end assessment roll which was used to set property taxes for 2021. 

**Data Source: Please enter source of data: MPAC, Stats Can, Municipal Sources or other. Line 0041 Population** 

Population should be based on the municipal enumeration conducted in the municipal election year and should reflect the boundaries that are in place when the new council assumes office. Since municipal elections occur every four years, the enumerated population is frozen between elections. In the ministry database, the enumerated population traditionally lags a year since municipal elections occur near the year end. 

Enumerated population includes persons on military bases but does not include seasonal residents. 

**Data Source: Please enter source of data: MPAC, Stats Can, Municipal Sources or other.** 

## **Line 0042 Youth Population** 

Enter the number of youths aged 12 to 17 (up to the 18[th ] birthday). 

Youth population is based on 2016 Census of Canada data and may be updated if there have been material changes. The next census will be in 2021. 

## **Data Source: Please select source of data** 

