**==> picture [235 x 67] intentionally omitted <==**

## 2025 Financial Information Return 

## **Schedule 61 Development Charges** 

## **Table of Contents** 

SCHEDULE 61:  Development Charges ......................................................................... 4 General Information ......................................................................................................... 4 Schedule 61A: Development Charges Receivable .......................................................... 4 Development Charges Receivable: .............................................................................. 4 Column 24: - Total Opening Development Charges Receivables Balance, January 1 .................................................................................................................................. 4 Column 17 - New Development Charge Installments Receivable ............................ 4 Column 18 - New Development Charge Interest Receivable .................................... 5 Column 19 - Less: Prior Year Development Charges Installment Receivables and Interest Collected During the Year. ........................................................................... 5 Column 20 - Net Development Charges Receivable ................................................ 5 Column 25 - Total Closing Development Charges Receivables Balance at December 31. ........................................................................................................... 5 Schedule 61B: Development Charges Cash Collected and Amounts Earned (DC Inflows / Outflows) ....................................................................................................................... 6 Inflows / Revenue: ....................................................................................................... 6 Development Charges Cash Collected ........................................................................ 6 Column 26 - Total opening Development Charges: Cash Collected Balance on January 1. ................................................................................................................. 6 Column 2: - Development Charges Cash Collected ................................................. 6 Column 3: - Interest and Investment Income Earned ................................................ 6 Column 21: - Repayment of Monies Borrowed from Development Charges Reserve Fund and Associated Interest ................................................................................... 7 Column 6: - Net Development Charges Cash Collected ........................................... 7 Column 27: - Total Development Charges Before Outflows: Cash Collected, Balance, December 31. ............................................................................................ 7 Outflows / Expenditures Development Charges: .......................................................... 7 Development Charges Earned / Utilized ...................................................................... 7 Column 7: - Development Charges Outflows to Consolidated Statement of Operations ................................................................................................................ 7 Column 8: - Development Charges Outflows to Tangible Capital Asset Acquisition . 8 Column 9: - Other Disbursements ............................................................................ 8 Column 23: - Monies Borrowed from Development Charges Reserve Funds .......... 8 Column 11: - Total Development Charges Outflows ................................................. 8 Column 28: - Total Ending Development Charges (DC Cash Collected) at Balance December 31 ............................................................................................................ 8 

## **SCHEDULE 61:  Development Charges** 

## **General Information** 

Schedule 61A drills deeper than Schedule 60 and collects information on development charge receivable transactions which occurred during the year segmented by service category. 

For financial reporting purposes, development charges reserve funds are reported as obligatory reserve funds/deferred revenue on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 

## **Schedule 61A: Development Charges Receivable** 

## **Development Charges Receivable:** 

## **Column 24: - Total Opening Development Charges Receivables Balance, January 1** 

This column is automatically populated from the previous year’s ending Development Charges Receivables balance at year end. 

However, the amounts in this column can be changed, if needed, to adjust amounts across the various prescribed services. 

For column 1, the balance at the beginning of the year on Line 0299 should equal the amount reported in the previous year as the balance at the end of the year. 

## **Column 17 - New Development Charge Installments Receivable** 

Deferred (uncollected) development charges are funds that are recorded upon issuance of a building permit in the current year for specific types of developments as provided for under section 26.1 of the Development Charges Act (DCA) and are payable in equal annual instalments as per section 26.1 of the DCA. These amounts remain uncollected at year end. 

## **Column 18 - New Development Charge Interest Receivable** 

Enter the accrued interest charges in the current year for the uncollected development charges (deferred under section 26.1 of the DCA). These amounts have not yet been collected. 

## **Column 19 - Less: Prior Year Development Charges Installment Receivables and Interest Collected During the Year.** 

Enter the portion of last year’s uncollected development charges, and any associated interest, which has been collected during the year. These amounts should be recorded as a positive value and will be subtracted to calculate Column 20. 

## **Column 20 - Net Development Charges Receivable** 

This is the total amount of uncollected development charges and accrued interest at year end as per section 26.1 in the DCA. 

## **This line is automatically calculated.** 

## **(SLC 61 0299 17 + SLC 61 0299 18 – SLC 61 0299 19)** 

## **Column 25 - Total Closing Development Charges Receivables Balance at December 31.** 

## **This line is automatically calculated.** 

For each prescribed service in each row: 

## **Total Closing Development Charges Receivables Balance at, December 31, (Column 25), equals:** 

Total Opening Development Charges Receivables Balance, beginning of year (Column 24) 

**PLUS:** Total New Development Charges Installments Receivable (Column 17) 

**PLUS:** New Development Charges Interest Receivable (Column 18) 

**LESS:** Prior Year Development Charges Instalment Receivables and Interest Collected During the Year (Column 19) 

## **Schedule 61B: Development Charges Cash Collected and Amounts Earned (DC Inflows / Outflows)** 

## **Inflows / Revenue:** 

## **Development Charges Cash Collected** 

## **Column 26 - Total opening Development Charges: Cash Collected Balance on January 1.** 

This column is automatically populated from the previous year’s ending Development Charges at year end. 

However, the amounts in this column can be changed, if needed, to adjust amounts across the various prescribed services. 

For column 1, the balance at the beginning of the year on Line 0299 should equal the amount reported in the previous year as the balance at the end of the year. 

## **Column 2: - Development Charges Cash Collected** 

Enter development charges cash collected in the current year for each prescribed service in development Charges reserve funds in Column 2. These amounts have been collected. 

## **Column 3: - Interest and Investment Income Earned** 

Enter income from securities and other investments earned in each obligatory reserve fund during the year in Column 3. Please note that development charges reserve funds cannot be consolidated with other municipal reserve funds for investment purposes. 

If reserve funds for various service categories were grouped, please enter proportional interest and investment income for each service. 

This section may also include unrealized gains (losses) from fair value measurement of restricted assets.  Please refer to PS 3450 Financial Instruments on how to account for unrealized gains (losses) for restricted assets. 

## **Column 21: - Repayment of Monies Borrowed from Development Charges Reserve Fund and Associated Interest** 

Enter the amount of borrowed development charges funds and associated interest that were paid back to each service in DC obligatory reserve funds in the current year in column 21. 

## **Column 6: - Net Development Charges Cash Collected** 

This line includes development charges collected in the year. 

## **Total is automatically calculated:** 

**(SLC 61B 0299 02 + SLC 61B 0299 03 + SLC 61B 0299 21)** 

## **Column 27: - Total Development Charges Before Outflows: Cash Collected, Balance, December 31.** 

This line includes the opening balance of DC cash collected and the net development charges cash collected. 

## **Total is automatically calculated:** 

**(SLC 61B 0299 26 + SLC 61B 0299 06)** 

## **Outflows / Expenditures Development Charges:** 

## **Development Charges Earned / Utilized** 

Amounts included in Columns 7, 8, 9 and 23 should reflect transactions recorded during the year. These amounts should be recorded as positive values. 

## **Column 7: - Development Charges Outflows to Consolidated Statement of Operations** 

In Column 7, enter the money in the reserve fund spent on costs that were included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. 

This column is automatically carried forward to Schedule 60 Line 1026 Column 1. 

## **Column 8: - Development Charges Outflows to Tangible Capital Asset Acquisition** 

In Column 8, enter money in the reserve fund spent to acquire, construct, or develop tangible capital assets. 

This column is automatically carried forward to Schedule 60 Line 1025 Column 1. 

## **Column 9: - Other Disbursements** 

Enter Development Charges Disbursements in Column 9 that cannot be captured under other disbursements categories. Refunds of development charges can be recorded in this column. 

## **Column 23: - Monies Borrowed from Development Charges Reserve Funds** 

Enter the amount of borrowed funds from development charges reserve funds for other municipal purposes. 

## **Column 11: - Total Development Charges Outflows** 

Total is automatically calculated. It is the sum of Development Charges Outflows in Columns 7, 8, 9 and 23. 

## **Column 28: - Total Ending Development Charges (DC Cash Collected) at Balance December 31** 

This line is automatically calculated as the Balance Beginning of Year Plus Total Development Charges Inflows: Cash Collected less Total Development Charges Outflows. 

For each prescribed service in each row: 

**Total Ending Development Charges Balance (DC Cash Collected) at, December 31, Column 28, equals:** 

Balance, beginning of year (Column 26) 

**PLUS:** Total Development Charges Inflows: – Column 27 **LESS:** Total Development Charges Outflows – Column 11 

**Please note that the sum of 61B Column 28 ending balance (SLC 61B 0299 28) and 61A Column 25 ending balance (SLC 61A 0299 25) should agree to the yearend development charges reserve funds balance recorded in the financial statements.** 

